The Project Gutenberg eBook of The sons of Kai
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The sons of Kai
        The story the Indian told

Author: Henry Beston

Release date: August 31, 2024 [eBook #74339]

Language: English

Original publication: United States: The Macmillan Company, 1926

Credits: Steve Mattern and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SONS OF KAI ***


[Illustration: _Hah-Tse-Yalti, the talking God._]




                            THE SONS OF KAI

                      _The Story the Indian Told_

                                  By
                             Henry Beston

                               New York
                         THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
                                 1927

                         _All rights reserved_





                           COPYRIGHT, 1926,
                       BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.

                       Set up and electrotyped.
                       Published November, 1926.


             _Printed in the United States of America by_
                J. J. LITTLE AND IVES COMPANY, NEW YORK




                                  To
                      MISS MARY CABOT WHEELWRIGHT
               _Because those who love the Southwest and
           its peoples owe to her courage, her discernment,
                       and her venturing spirit
                      more than they can repay._




ILLUSTRATIONS


 HAH-TSE-YALTI, THE TALKING GOD.                  _Frontispiece_

                                                          PAGE

 THE TWIN SONS OF KAI.                               _facing_  6

 THE BUFFALOES AND THE BUFFALO CALVES.               _facing_ 12

 THEY SWAM AND THRASHED ABOUT IN THE POOLS.                   15

 “WHERE ARE YOUR SONS?”                                       23

 THERE WERE FLASHES OF LIGHTNING THROUGH THE TUMBLING WATERS. 27

 THE TWINS LEARNED THE USE OF BOW AND ARROW.         _facing_ 30

 “HERE ARE THREE GIFTS TO HELP YOU WIN THEM.”                 33

 HOMEWARD TO THE CANYON OF THEIR CHILDHOOD.                   53




THE SONS OF KAI


The country of the Navahos lies south and west of the Rocky Mountains
on a great tableland lifted up into the sky. It is a country of canyons
and deserts, mountains and wild pasture lands arched over by the bluest
sky in all the world. The sun there seems bigger than our northern sun,
and he treads the sky each day like a proud Indian god in a feather
headdress of gold and fire.

When a Navaho falls ill, or has recovered from an illness, his friends
and the friends of his friends meet together by night to dance the
sacred fire dance. In the open land by some lonely settlement in the
ancient hills, they kindle great fires under the starry sky, and dance
the sacred dance round and about the flames. The old men sing, the
drums resound, and the tread of the dancers shakes the earth till the
fires sink and die in the glow of the mountain dawn.

The song which the old men sing at the dance is very beautiful and very
old. It is called the Song of Healing. This is the story the Navahos
tell about the song.

[Illustration]

Once upon a time, say the Navahos, an Indian people lived in a cliff
dwelling in the south wall of the Canyon de Chelly.[A] The huge,
arched-over hollow in which their town was built was more than halfway
up the side of the reddish-pink canyon wall, and to get to it, the
people had to climb ladders and follow narrow paths cut in the stone.
Looking from the canyon up to the cliff, one could see the little
square houses nestling under the huge arch, a watch tower, and a
granary. At one end of the arch, a ribbon of water, gliding down the
cliff, marked the overflow of a fine spring which never failed.

The people of the cliff village lived by farming. A river flowed
through the canyon, and along its banks were peach orchards, and
meadows, and fields of melons, squashes, beans and tasselled corn. All
day long, as they went back and forth between their fields and the
town, the Indians could be seen climbing up and down the cliff.

At night, the ladders were pulled up so that no enemy or climbing
animal could reach the town. Then the great arch filled with stars,
little cooking fires began to twinkle in front of the houses, and the
barking of coyotes was to be heard, now near, now ever so faint and far
away.

The silversmith of the town was named Pesh-li-kai, which, in the Navaho
tongue, means the Silver Man. He had a little forge, a bellows of goat
skin, and an anvil which he held between his knees. Now Pesh-li-kai, so
the Navahos say, had a daughter, and she was quite the handsomest of
all the Indian girls. So gracefully and prettily did she move that the
people called her Kai, which is The Willow.

One spring morning, Kai went down the ladders to weed in the young
corn. Suddenly she heard a pleasant voice call her by name.

The maiden dropped her weeding stick, rose to her feet, and looked
about. No one was near, and no one answered her when she called.

A few days later the girl again went down to weed in the corn. A little
breeze was blowing thin clouds down the canyon sky, and brought to the
girl’s ears the faint voices of other villagers working along the
valley. Suddenly Kai heard, from near at hand, the pleasant voice again
calling her by name.

Once more, the daughter of Pesh-li-kai looked about, and once more
could not discover who had called.

On a third morning, however, when the same unknown voice had spoken
a third time, there was a rustling of leaves in bushes by the river,
and a young Indian man stepped out of them, and walked towards Kai. He
was tall, his features were grave and handsome, and he was clothed in
a splendid garment of soft, snow-white buckskin beautifully decorated
with beadwork figures in the old Indian way. Upon his head was an
Indian bonnet of eagle plumes.

This tall young man was Hah-Tse-Yalti or the Talking God. He had seen
the daughter of Pesh-li-kai and fallen in love with her. So that
morning, in the spring sunlight of the canyon, the Talking God asked
the girl to marry him, and this she did.

Of this marriage, twin boys were born whose strange adventures you
shall hear.

[Illustration: _The twin sons of Kai._]

The daughter of Pesh-li-kai brought up her sons in the cliff dwelling.
Their father, Hah-Tse-Yalti, had returned to the country of the gods.

Because the twins were fatherless, or seemingly so, all the villagers
were kind to them. The war chief of the village, who was a nephew of
Pesh-li-kai, taught them the use of the bow and arrow; the peace chief
of the tribe taught them the Indian lore of animals. Their mother Kai
taught them the ancient prayer to the gods and to the new day which the
Navahos still say when the sun comes over the mountains.

[Illustration: _The twins learned the use of bow and arrow._]

They hunted, they fished in the river, they swam and thrashed about in
the pools.

[Illustration: _They swam and thrashed about in the pools._]

Every summer buffalo hunters left the village to go buffalo hunting
on the plains, and before they went, the men and boys of the village
danced the buffalo dance.

In the year that the boys were ten years old, the dance took place at
night. As the houses of the town were built against the back wall and
the sides of the open hollow, there was a fine open space in front
under the overhanging arch, and there the Indians built a great fire.
The pine branches crackled and burnt fiercely, the yellow flames leaped
at the roof, darkening the soot-smudge already there, and a fragrant
smoke full of red sparks curled out the arch and poured up into the sky.

Then drums began to sound, stately drums, and the older men of the
village came out beating the drums and singing the deep-voiced buffalo
song.

Then came the younger men, the dancers, climbing one by one from their
council-chamber underground. The dancers wore moccasins of hide and
turquoise beadwork trimmed with the black and white of skunk fur,
their lean, strong legs were washed over with reddish brown paint, a
broad band of white cloth encircled them from the waist to just above
the knees, and their bare upper bodies and arms were painted like
their legs. They wore turquoise and silver necklaces, and round their
foreheads, bands of brilliant cloth.

Ten of the dancers were supposed to be buffaloes. You could not see
their human heads at all, for they were hidden in real buffalo heads
with hollow wooden frames. These dancers looked just like buffaloes
with painted human bodies. Two little buffalo calves followed behind
the grown-up dancers. When the older buffaloes pretended to be real
buffaloes, and looked about and at the ground as if they were looking
for grass, the two buffalo calves did the same thing.

[Illustration: _The buffaloes and the buffalo calves...._]

The buffalo calves were the twin sons of the Talking God and Kai. They
were proud beyond words to be in the dance. Their thick, straight,
black hair had just the gloss of a blackbird’s wing in the sun, their
eyes were a deep black-brown, and they were strongly made and of
pleasant countenance, even as the Talking God, their father.

[Illustration]

A day or two after the dance, the mother of the twins went down into
the canyon to look for certain roots used in making a dye. As she was
scanning the ground, she saw a ground owl sitting at the mouth of its
burrow playing cat’s cradle with a thin buckskin thong. The Navahos say
that the spider taught the owl this game, and that the owl taught it to
men.

“Daughter of Pesh-li-kai,” said the ground owl, “where are your sons?”

[Illustration: “_Where are your sons?_”]

“In the village,” replied the mother of the twins.

For a moment or two after this, the owl said nothing whatever, but
continued with his “cat’s cradle” game. Then suddenly he fixed his
round yellow eyes on Kai, and said slowly, “If I were you, I would
hide them there a while. The god whom we call the Mischief Maker is in
the land, and if he finds the twins, he may do them harm. Keep them at
home, Daughter of Pesh-li-kai.”

At these words the frightened mother dropped the little bundle of dye
roots she had already gathered, and ran as fast as she could back to
the village. When she reached her house, her heart almost stopped
beating, for the boys were not there. She did find them, however, at
their grandfather’s. They were seated on the ground near the tiny
forge, watching Pesh-li-kai melting silver in a cup.

Calling the twins to her, their mother told them of the ground owl’s
warning, and forbade them to leave the village even for a moment. She
then gave them a buckskin cord to play cat’s cradle with, and went
down the ladders to continue her search for the roots. As these were
small and not very plentiful, she had to search the ground for them
slowly and carefully.

About the middle of the afternoon, the mother became aware of a sound
of the sighing of wind, a sound that did not die away, but grew louder
and louder and louder till all the little pinyon pines in the canyon,
rustling and moaning together, made a sound like the sea. Kai knew
instantly that a cloud-burst was at hand. She had hardly gathered her
roots together before the sky grew pitchy dark.

Great whirling billows of dust now swept up the black canyon; whirls
of dust swept off the canyon rim into the tumult of the upper air; the
whole world seemed to dissolve in a great, trembling, roaring sound
of wind and rushing rain. With a peal of thunder that echoed and
re-echoed from the canyon walls, the cloud-burst reached the valley.

Roaring rain of the southwest country, rain of the giant drops, rain
that in the twinkling of an eye turns little rivers to deep streams.
The thunder bird rode the wild dark, the wind, and the sheets of rain,
the arrows of lightning fell from the bows of the thunder spirits.

Seeing the cloud-burst coming, the Indians working in the fields
dropped their sticks and hoes and ran as fast as they could for the
ladders. Kai ran pell-mell with the rest. The instant she reached the
town she looked about for her sons.

They were nowhere to be found.

[Illustration]

Presently a neighbor remembered seeing them going down the ladders
carrying their bows and arrows. Another neighbor was sure that they had
gone to hunt wild turkeys in the waste land back of the canyon rim.

The twins had forgotten their mother’s warning, and were out somewhere
in the storm.

The water which had fallen on the uplands now began to tumble over
the canyon rim in wild cascades, and as the storm increased, the arch
through which the village looked out upon the world was curtained over
by a giant waterfall. Now and then, at one edge of the arch, there were
flashes of lightning through the tumbling waters.

[Illustration: _There were flashes of lightning through the tumbling
waters._]

In the shelter of its rocky hollow, the town stood snug and dry. But it
was very dark, and the darkness was full of the hiss and roaring of the
fall.

The Indians built a fire and gathered about the flames.

All night long, the daughter of Pesh-li-kai fed the great fire with
fresh branches. All night long, sitting alone, she watched the play
of the flames on the plunging foam of the fall, and listened to the
thunder mingle its wild sound with the tumult of the waters.

When the morning came, and the great fall had thinned to half a dozen
little ones, the mother was still there waiting by the embers of the
fire.

The boys had not returned.

The Mischievous God had found them, and shut them up in a cave.

[Illustration]

For three days the twins remained in the cave. It was darker than the
darkest night within, and fearing to lose each other, the boys clung
together as they felt their way about. On the second day, one of the
boys fell heavily over a stone, and rose from the ground crippled and
lame.

On the morning of the third day, they heard a heavy sound. The stones
with which the Mischievous God had blocked the mouth of the cave had
fallen down. A ray of light appeared, and the boys went towards the
sparkling gleam. When they had emerged into the sunshine, one of the
twins said to his brother,

“Where is the light of which you spoke? I cannot see it.” And he felt
about as if he were still in the cave.

Then the other twin looked into his brother’s eyes, and saw that during
the three days in the cave his brother had become blind.

Leading his blind brother by the hand, the lame boy led off into the
empty country. Far, far away, rising blue and beautiful through blue
air, one of the four sacred mountains of the Indian people lifted its
snow-capped head. The twins were in a strange desert country many days
journey from their canyon home.

After wandering thirstily about for a whole day, they came to a
little river, and upon its bank they rested for the night.

The next morning, when the rosy desert dawn began to blossom in the
sky, and the long dawn shadows of the cactuses and the desert shrubs
lay gray and cool upon the lifeless ground, the twins stood up, and
said the old Indian prayer to the sun and the new-born day. Then down
the stream they hobbled forlorn towards reddish desert mountains at the
far edge of earth and sky.

The river, as it approached the mountains, grew larger, and presently
plunged into a canyon much narrower and deeper than the canyon in which
the boys were born. Now following along a little bank, now climbing
over great boulders in the river bed, the boys struggled on into the
gorge. Suddenly the river turned a sharp corner, and following it, the
twins found themselves in a wild and magnificent valley whose slopes
were green with trees.

From the eastern wall of this valley, a huge cliff with a broad flat
top thrust itself forth like the prow of a giant ship built to sail
through the stars. Fires were burning on its summit, and columns of
pale smoke wavered and scurried away in the wind on the heights. At the
foot of the cliff, the river churned in a great foaming pool, and this
pool was full of huge logs washed down the hillsides by cloud-bursts
and the floods of spring.

This rock was Tse-intyel, “The Broad Rock of the Gods,” and the pool
was “The Place of the Whirling Logs.” The Gods dwelt there.

Just before the twilight deepened and died, the lame boy managed to
kindle a tiny fire. The blind twin sat beside it, listening to the
deep thunder of the churning pool. Every now and then some log would
strike some other log a dull, booming blow.

Suddenly the blind lad heard the faintest sound of distant footsteps,
and caught his lame twin by the arm. Looking up startled, the lame boy
saw a tall man coming towards them, his face grave and sorrowful.

The visitor was Hah-Tse-Yalti, the Talking God. An eagle had told him
of the plight of his twin sons. So that night the Talking God consoled
his unhappy children, and told them what they must do to be healed.

“You must visit the four sacred mountains,” said the Talking God.
“First you must go to the Mountain of the North, then to the Mountain
of the East, then to the Mountain of the South, and lastly to the
Mountain of the West. The tribes of the Sacred Mountains will receive
you in friendship, and at the Mountain of the West, the Chief of the
People will teach you the Healing Song.”

So the lame boy and the blind boy went north and east and south and
west to the four sacred mountains and learned the healing song. Their
father Hah-Tse-Yalti watched over them, and every night while they
slept, placed a bowl of food at their side.

When the twins had learned the healing song, they made their way again
to the Broad Rock and sang the song before the Gods.

“But where are your gifts?” said the Gods. “You must bring us the three
sacred stones before you can be healed.”

In the dark of the night Hah-Tse-Yalti came with the bowl of food, and
woke his sons.

“The three sacred stones,” said the God, “are Turquoise, Silver, and
Shell. The Hopi people guard them. Here are three gifts to help you win
them. In this buckskin pouch of white beads is the Frost, the enemy of
the young corn.

“In this buckskin pouch of green beads is the Cutworm, the devourer.

“In this buckskin pouch of blue beads is the Hail that strikes the
grown corn to the ground.”

[Illustration: “_Here are three gifts to help you win them._”]

Down the river paths, and across the desert and the mountains, the
boys went to work for the Hopis who guarded the Sacred Stones.

[Illustration]

The boys found the Hopi people living in the desert on the same mesas
they occupy today. The Hopis, so the Navahos say, mocked at the
brothers.

“Ho! Ho! Ho!” they said, “so you have come to work for us, have you?
What can you do, you lame boy, and what can you do, blind boy? And what
wage do you ask of us?”

“At the end of the spring, our wage shall be the Sacred Silver Stone,”
said the boys. “At the midsummer, our wage shall be the Sacred
Turquoise Stone, and at the time of the harvest, you shall pay us the
last sacred stone of gleaming purple shell. Will you make this bargain
with us, people of the Hopi?”

“Yes,” said the Hopi people mockingly, never dreaming that the twins
meant what they said. And they gave the twins an almost roofless room
in an old part of their pueblo, and told them to go and work in the
fields.

All the early spring, the lame boy and the blind boy worked hard
helping the Hopis plant their corn. The corn of the Pueblo Indians is
not straw-yellow like ours, but of all colors; it is orange, it is
orange-gold, it is garnet-red, it is purple like the grape.

When the spring was at end, and the young corn was well started in the
fields below the mesa, the twins asked for the Sacred Silver Stone.

“We have kept you alive, and that is enough,” said the Hopis angrily.
“Do you suppose we should ever part with the Sacred Silver Stone?”

The twins said little, but remembered the frost magic which their
father had given them in the first buckskin bag. In the middle of the
night, when the stars were shining on the desert, and everybody in the
pueblo was asleep, the twins opened the bag. The cold that crept out of
the pouch nipped and numbed their fingers, and through the broken roof,
they could see the stars veiling over.

For three days, the twins left the pouch open, for three days it was
cold in the Hopi country, and for three nights there were frosts which
damaged the growing corn. The Hopis presently held a council to see
what could be done.

After the Hopis had talked and talked, and everybody in the pueblo had
been asked for his advice, an old man chanced to say:

“We have not yet asked the lame boy and the blind boy. Suppose we ask
them to the council, too. They may be able to give us some advice.”

At this many laughed, but the twins were sent for, after all. The lame
lad hobbled to the council ground with his blind brother clinging to
his sleeve.

Then the lame lad leaned upon his brother and told the Hopis that he
and his twin could work magic to stop the frost and save the corn, but
that for doing this, the Hopis must give them the promised sacred stone.

Unwilling to lose their corn and live half starved during the next
winter, the Hopis promised faithfully to give the boys the sacred
stone. So the boys closed the first buckskin bag, and the corn began to
grow again.

[Illustration]

By the midsummer, the tasseled corn was growing splendidly. The twins,
who had worked hard, then asked for the second sacred stone. But the
Hopis were unwilling to pay the promised wage.

That night the twins let the cutworm out of the second bag, and before
the morning he had worked a world of mischief in the corn. Once again
the Hopis held a council, and once again they called in the brothers.

“Yes,” said the boys. “We have magic strong enough to clear the cutworm
from the corn, but you must promise us the second sacred stone.”

So the Hopis promised faithfully to give the brothers the Stone of
Turquoise, and the boys then closed the bag from which the cutworm had
crept. The instant they did so the cutworm vanished from the corn.

At harvest time, the tall stalks of corn were more beautiful than
ever. The brothers now asked for the three sacred stones--the Stone of
Silver, the Stone of Turquoise and the Stone of Purple Shell.

“Be off!” said the Hopis. “You shall not have the stones.” And they
threatened the boys that they would send them away from the mesa.
Returning to their room, the boys opened the last of the buckskin bags.

The sky grew dark; the wind began to howl over the mesa; the corn
stalks shuddered, and tossed their ripening leaves. Suddenly huge hail
stones began to tumble down.

The hearts of the Hopis grew cold with fear, for they knew that the
hail would beat down the corn, and that the ears would rot rather than
ripen.

“Stop the hail with your magic!” they cried to the boys. But the boys
paid no heed till the Hopis put the sacred stones into their hands.

Then the hail stopped, the storm cleared away as swiftly as it had
gathered, and the brothers left the mesa carrying the stones for which
the Gods had asked. On the rocky stairs leading from the pueblo to the
ground, the magic hail stones were shining and melting in the sun.

[Illustration]

Tse-intyel, the home of the Gods, was far away beyond the deserts
and the mountains, but the brothers made the long journey safely.
Hah-Tse-Yalti, their father, though unseen by them, protected them and
brought them food.

After spending a night by the Pool of the Whirling Logs, the boys
climbed the Broad Rock of the Gods. They began their climb long before
the dawn, and arrived at the top just as the sun appeared at the far
rim of the earth.

From the flat top of Tse-intyel, the Gods could see all the wide Indian
world,--the deserts, the waste lands, the river pastures, the dark
canyons with the sun silvering their western rim, the lonely little
hills, the snowy mountains, and the great plains where the buffalo
herds moved like slow cloud shadows over the immense and tawny land.

Then Hah-Tse-Yalti took his sons by the hand, and led them before
the Gods. The chief of the Gods was he whom the Navahos call “The
God-Who-Is-Stronger-Than-Fear.” The brothers then gave the Gods the
three sacred stones, and sang the Healing Song.

When they had finished, the God-Who-Is-Stronger-Than-Fear touched the
blind boy upon the eyes, and the lame boy upon the knee. And the blind
boy saw again, and the lame boy limped no more.

So the brothers gave thanks to the Gods, and rejoiced at their healing,
and Hah-Tse-Yalti rejoiced with his sons. When the time came for the
boys to go, Hah-Tse-Yalti led them to the eastern edge of Tse-intyel,
showed them their canyon home, and told them of the trail of the
Gods which led to it.

[Illustration]

Homeward to the canyon of their childhood went the boys, homeward to
the cliff dwelling and to Kai their mother.

[Illustration: Homeward to the canyon of their childhood.]

And the Navahos say that the twins became great heroes, and taught the
Indian peoples the Healing Song they sing to this very day.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                               Footnote
 [A] Pronounced “chay.”




                          Transcriber’s Notes

Perceived typographical errors have been silently corrected.

Illustrations have been moved nearer to the text to which they refer.
As a result, the page numbers listed in the Illustrations table may be
incorrect.






*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SONS OF KAI ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Aldine Speller: Part Two
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Aldine Speller: Part Two
        for Grades Three and Four

Author: Catherine T. Bryce
        Frank J. Sherman

Release date: September 1, 2024 [eBook #74345]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: Newson & Company, 1916

Credits: Carla Foust, hekula03 and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images made available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ALDINE SPELLER: PART TWO ***





  THE
  ALDINE SPELLER

  PART TWO

  FOR GRADES THREE AND FOUR


  BY

  CATHERINE T. BRYCE

  ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS
  MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.

  AND

  FRANK J. SHERMAN

  FORMERLY SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS
  MONSON, MASS.


  [Illustration]


  NEW YORK
  NEWSON & COMPANY




  COPYRIGHT, 1916, BY
  NEWSON & COMPANY.

  _All rights reserved._




PREFACE


To teachers and the public alike, probably no subject taught in
the public schools has been more disappointing than spelling. This
disappointment is undoubtedly due to:

1. Defective material for study and poor methods of teaching;

2. Too much testing and too little teaching;

3. Finding errors rather than preventing them;

4. The use of a theoretical, rather than the practical, vocabulary of
children and adults.

The teaching of spelling must be done from a spelling book in the hands
of the children, since the individual teacher does not have the time to
prepare lists of words which will produce as good results as the lists
given in a spelling book, the selection and preparation of which are
the result of years of special observation and testing.

A plan of teaching spelling to secure the best results should consist
of a thoughtful, systematic, and comprehensive presentation of the
words and spelling facts which every pupil must learn. It must contain
an adequate and simple system of phonics for the primary grades, since
a large percentage of the words in common use are purely phonetic and
present no spelling difficulties once a sane and practical phonetic
foundation is fixed. It must have a vocabulary selected and graded with
such care that it will give the child the ability to spell correctly
those words which he needs to use in his written work, and that it will
also develop and broaden his vocabulary for his future needs. It should
contain suitable directions and hints to the teacher, sufficiently
removed from the pupil’s text so that he may not be confused by them.
It may, and in many grades should, contain information and suggestions
to the pupil that will help him to master the many peculiarly
non-phonetic words which present their individual problems and must
be individually mastered. It should contain a very few of the most
important spelling rules simply stated. It should contain a large
variety of sentences for dictation, which may wisely take the form of
gems of thought. Such a plan, well taught, constantly supplemented by
the teacher with such words as the peculiar difficulties of individual
pupils and classes may require, will produce a maximum of ability to
spell correctly.

In the Aldine Speller the authors have presented a plan of teaching
which in actual results has proved singularly effective. The vocabulary
has been selected and graded with unusual care to meet the actual needs
of life and to develop a spelling sense. In its preparation a careful
comparison was made of the vocabularies of several of the most popular
spelling books of the day in respect to both gradation and selection.
Paralleling this, the various recent tests and investigations, notably
those of Ayres, Jones, and Cook and O’Shea, have been checked.
The resulting vocabulary is thought to represent the real writing
vocabulary of the average child of the grade in which it is taught.
Special and repeated drills are given on the real trouble makers--the
one hundred and more words that comprise four-fifths of the misspelled
words of the schoolroom.

In the primary grades use is made of exceptionally valuable phonetic
lists. Emphasis is placed upon this important and very practical
foundation for the development of a spelling sense, and its mastery in
the primary grades will do much to train children to spell correctly.
A few comparatively uncommon words are used in these lists chiefly for
the value of the phonetic drill.

As every error creates a tendency, and if repeated quickly establishes
a habit, it is important that the correct spelling of words be taught
before children have occasion to write them. Every worth-while test
and investigation shows the most common and most useful words in
our language to be the words used early by children. It is likewise
certain that very many of the misspelled words are one-syllable words
in very common use. It would, therefore, seem essential that the
real teaching of spelling should be done as early as possible in
the grades--somewhat earlier than has frequently been the case--that
correct habits, rather than incorrect ones, may be formed.

Obligation is expressed to Dr. Leonard P. Ayres of the Russell Sage
Foundation for kind permission to make use of his list of “The Thousand
Commonest Words.” These and some four thousand other very common and
important words constitute the Aldine vocabulary.

That the Aldine Speller may lead to some real teaching, and decrease
“lesson hearing,” is the hope of the authors.




DIRECTIONS TO TEACHERS


ORAL SPELLING

Oral spelling should always precede written spelling in the primary
grades. Careful and distinct pronunciation by the child should always
precede oral spelling. Children cannot be expected to spell correctly
words that they cannot pronounce. It is well to emphasize the form of a
word of more than one syllable by syllabication. It makes the spelling
more obvious, promotes clear enunciation, and assists in creating a
correct mental picture of the word. The sight words in this book are so
syllabicated when first presented. A slight pause between the syllables
is usually sufficient in oral spelling. In writing the words they
should not be divided.


TESTING

The mere “hearing” of spelling lessons is happily a thing of the past
in most schools. However, teachers cannot be too strongly impressed
with the worthlessness of such exercises. The primary object is to
instruct, not to examine--to teach to spell correctly, not to find out
how many words may be spelled incorrectly. Review lessons should be
given frequently, and these are sufficient for test purposes. All other
lessons should be thoroughly taught with instruction the aim and object
of the lesson.


INTEREST

It has been well said that “interest is nine-tenths of education.” This
is true in teaching spelling. Any means which will arouse interest in
mastering words is likely to be effective. So far as our forefathers
succeeded in securing results in this subject they did so by interest
in the old-fashioned “spelling-bee.” Spelling matches of various sorts
are desirable for creating interest. The review lists and special lists
will be found admirable for this purpose. It should be remembered,
however, that this is testing what is already learned and is not
teaching something new.


PUPILS’ LISTS

Each pupil has his own difficulties in spelling. Teach him to make
private lists of the words which he finds especially hard to spell and
have him use extra effort to conquer these trouble-makers. These may
be listed in the back of his textbook or in his individual note book.
Occasional lessons may be devoted entirely to this kind of exercise and
they should be individual and painstaking. Such words should be watched
for in the other written work and misspelling prevented rather than
corrected. Besides making the misspelled words the basis of a lesson
they may well be correctly and carefully written on the board with the
difficulty shown in colored crayon. If possible leave them in sight for
several days.


HOMOPHONES

Words spelled differently but pronounced alike should be kept apart
until the spelling of each has become fixed and the ability to use
correctly in sentences reasonably sure. Then only may they safely be
brought together for comparison. When this is done much care must be
used that no confusion may exist in the child’s mind as to the proper
use of each.


ORDER OF PRESENTATION

All children do not learn spelling equally well in the same way. Some
are sense organ learners while others are largely motor organ learners.
Most children are both. In all cases the order of seeing words, hearing
them pronounced, pronouncing them, spelling them aloud, and then
writing them, will be found to be most effective. Appeal is thus made
successively to the eye, the ear, the memory, and the hand.


ENUNCIATION

Poor enunciation is a common source of incorrect spelling. Occasionally
test your pupils on sounding words. See to it that they learn to give
the right value to the vowel sounds and do not omit any that should be
sounded. Do not permit “in” for “ing,” final “ed” to be sounded like
“t,” or “body” to be sounded “buddy.” Remember that “A word correctly
pronounced is half spelled.”


PROPER NAMES

No place has been given in this book to proper names since the needs of
different classrooms vary so widely. They must be thoroughly taught,
however, and it is the teacher’s duty to teach such proper names as her
pupils need to use. Strongly emphasize the fact that these proper names
always begin with a capital letter.


PHONETIC WORDS

Many of the words in this book are grouped into phonetic lists. The
object of this is strongly to impress the common part of these words
upon the child. The repeated sight, sound, and spelling of this common
combination of letters make it possible to learn the words in a list
easily and in a short time. This common part is _pronounced_ the same
and _spelled_ the same in all the words of a list. Have the children
_find_ this common part, _pronounce_ it distinctly, and _spell_ it.
Then have each word in the list spelled orally, emphasizing the part
that is not common. For example, in lesson 6, page 2, is a list of
phonetic words.

1. Have the children give the part that is common to every word in the
list--_ever_.

2. Have the children point to and pronounce this common part.

3. Have this common part spelled orally.

4. Have the children pronounce each word in the list, slightly
separating and emphasizing the part that is different, as _n_--e-v-e-r,
_c-l_--e-v-e-r.

5. Have each word spelled orally, emphasizing the uncommon part.

By giving or having the children give sentences using the words
correctly, make sure that the meaning of every word is understood by
the pupils.

Much of the spelling of phonetic lists may be done orally. After
several groups have been studied, dictate words from them to be written
by the children. For example, after lessons 5, 6, and 7 have been
studied and spelled orally, dictate ten or twelve words selected from
these groups for the children to write. Several groups may be studied
and spelled orally in one spelling period, and words from these groups
dictated and written during another period. The writing of a spelling
lesson only tests the pupil’s power. Put most of your time and effort
into teaching, into helping the pupils to acquire the power.


WORDS THAT ARE NOT PHONETIC

Most so called non-phonetic words contain some particular letter, or
combination of letters, that makes the spelling difficult. If this
difficulty is clearly pointed out, it is half overcome. Find, with the
pupils, the “catch” in each word; emphasize it by underlining, or by
writing it in colored chalk, or by focusing the children’s attention on
it in some way. Then have them concentrate their energy in mastering it.

Read with the children the story addressed to them at the beginning
of their book, “The King’s Rules.” Refer to the story frequently and
encourage them to follow the rules daily. Study the notes on the
spelling of difficult words throughout the book. See that the children
not only apply the notes on the pages on which they occur, but look for
other words that contain the same problems.

For seat work, after every word in a lesson has been correctly and
distinctly pronounced, have the children decide what in each word
calls for special attention. This they may do by copying the word and
indicating in some way the difficulty as by underlining. Or they may
make little notes based on those in their book.

Make your children keen to detect and overcome these special
difficulties, and their interest will secure excellent results.


REVIEW WORDS

From time to time pages of review words are given. These lists are
made up of commonly used, often misspelled, words. Call the children’s
attention over and over again to the difficulties in these words. Use
some of them daily. Hold the children to the correct spelling of them
in all written work. Make opportunities to use them. Keep a record in
plain sight, showing the children’s progress in the mastery of these
words. Make the mastery of these words a personal matter to yourself,
even to the extent of considering your teaching a failure if every
child in the third year does not form the habit of spelling correctly
the words on page 30, and every child in the fourth year those on page
75. Call attention to these pages at the beginning of the year, and
arouse the children’s interest and ambition to master the words as
early as possible.


QUOTATIONS

The sentences, proverbs, poems, myths, and various quotations are
carefully selected for certain definite purposes:

1. They review the words that have been taught.

2. They give new words in their natural context--a much better way of
fixing their meaning and making them a part of the child’s vocabulary
than the use of definitions or short, unrelated sentences.

3. They are examples of good English and may serve as models for the
children’s attempts at composition.

These quotations may be used in different ways:

1. _Copying._ Read the selection with the children that they may have
an idea of the whole. Do not allow them to copy letter by letter,
glancing from the book to the paper. At first they may study and copy
single words, later they should read and copy phrases, clauses, and
sentences.

The child’s copy should always be compared with the book and corrected.
A special mark or word of praise should be given to the child who makes
an exact copy.

2. _Dictation._ In dictating, read a complete sentence once for the
children. Do not use the poems for dictation, as dictating them line by
line often destroys the sense, and always the beauty, of the rhythm.

3. _Memory._ Children often spell words correctly when they are
dictated and misspell the same words when they are trying to express
their own thought. For this reason it is well to have the children
write some of the selections from memory. It is a step between taking
dictation and writing original compositions. The proverbs and rhymes
are especially well adapted for memory work.


REPRODUCTION

The short stories may be rewritten, using different words in place of
certain indicated words, as suggested in lesson 99, page 64, or a free
reproduction may be made.


ORIGINAL SENTENCES

The words in each lesson have been grouped about a central thought.
Have the children write original sentences or stories, using the words
in a lesson, as in lesson 31, page 51.


AUTHORS

The authors of the different selections, or their sources, are given in
the child’s book. It is hoped he will thus become somewhat acquainted
with their origin. But he should not be required or expected to
memorize these names or sources.


PICTURES

For seat work have the children make lists of words suggested by the
pictures in their book.


THE VOCABULARY

The vocabulary, alphabetically arranged, will be found on pages 33 and
74. Encourage the children to use this vocabulary to check up the words
that they are positive they can spell correctly, and for reference to
find any word they may wish to use in their written work. These lists
of words may also be used for oral spelling matches or written reviews.
Regularly and systematically test the pupils. Keep records, to which
the children have ready access, showing their progress and efficiency.
Have each child keep a list of the words he misspells, and keep on
urging him and testing him, until he has mastered his particular “word
demons.”


SUMMARY

To sum up: Arouse a spelling interest; develop a spelling sense; teach
the children how to study intelligently; review constantly; keep
definite records of progress.




  TO THE GIRLS AND BOYS:


 THE KING’S RULES

 (Said to be a true story)

 Late one summer afternoon a boy sat at his desk trying to learn a
 spelling lesson. It was warm in the schoolroom and the boy’s head
 ached. His teacher had gone out for a moment and he was alone.

 A shadow fell across his desk. The boy looked up and saw a stranger
 standing before him. He thought he had seen this man before. He felt
 that he was a great man.

 “Why are you not out of doors playing with the other children?” asked
 the stranger.

 “I am studying my spelling lesson,” answered the boy. “I have to stay
 in every night because I just can’t learn how to spell. I hate it!”

 “Nonsense!” said the man. “I can tell you in one minute how to learn
 to spell.”

 The boy laughed. “You must be a magician,” he said.

 “No,” said the man, “I am not a magician, but I am the king. Boy, do
 you think your king would tell you anything that is not true?”

 “No, Sire,” answered the boy, springing to his feet, for now he
 recognized the king from pictures he had seen.

 “Then listen, my lad. Any one can become a good speller who follows
 these three rules:

 “1. _Listen_ carefully when the word is spoken.

 “2. _Say_ it correctly when you speak it.

 “3. _Look_ at the word thoughtfully to get an exact picture of it in
 your mind.

 “If you will study every word in your lesson in this way, you will
 never again have to stay after school to learn your spelling lesson.”

 “Thank you, Sire,” said the boy. “I will follow your three rules.”

 Twenty-two years later the king received a present of a wonderful
 book. When he opened it, he found the following words written on the
 first page:

  “This book is gratefully dedicated to
  The King
  By the boy whom he taught to spell.”

 Yes, the boy followed the king’s rules. He learned how to spell and
 how to write, and now he was one of the greatest writers in the land.

Do _you listen_ carefully while your teacher pronounces each word, or
do you write what you _think_ she says?

Do _you say_ each word correctly, or do you say _jest_ when you mean
_just_, or _comin’_ when you mean _coming_?

Do _you look_ carefully at each word until you have an exact picture of
it in your mind?

Will you try to follow the king’s rules in the study of the spelling
words in this book?

They will surely make your work better and easier.




  THE ALDINE SPELLER

  PART II

  THIRD YEAR

[Illustration]


         1                           2

  world     hap py           should      cure
  full      I am              would      sure
  num ber   I’m               could      pure

When you spell _world_ make the _o_ very clear.

Be _sure_ you do not put an _h_ in _sure_.


3

HAPPY THOUGHT

    The world is so full of a number of things,
    I’m sure we should all be as happy as kings.

                                        --ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

     4          5            6            7

  shoes      bat tle        ev er       leave
  horse      cat tle       nev er       weave
  rid er     rat tle      clev er      cleave
  dai ly     tat tle       sev er       heave
  its       coun try         post       shall

_Shoes_ is a word to look at thoughtfully.


8

  For want of a nail the shoe was lost.
  For want of a shoe the horse was lost.
  For want of a horse the rider was lost.
  For want of a rider the battle was lost.
  For want of a battle the country was lost.


                      9

   reach      teach      peach      trust
  preach      beach       each      enter


   10          11          12          13

  drank       life        this        fox
  thank       wife        hiss         ox
   bank      knife        kiss         ox en
   rank     strife       bliss         roof
  plank      stone        miss         proof
   sank    fol low        wire         case

Which is the hardest word in Lesson 11? Why?


14

  be come      read         oar      pitch er
  dropped      wa ter      roar      thirst y


15

THE CROW AND THE PITCHER

    Did you ever read about the thirsty crow?
    One day he found a pitcher with some water in it.
    He could not reach the water.
    He dropped stones into the pitcher.
    The water rose to the top.
    Then the crow drank his fill.

                                        --ÆSOP.


   16         17         18        19

   feel     great        felt     next
   heel     a fraid      melt     size
   peel     li on        belt     morn ing
  kneel     off         knelt     safe
  wheel     chase       spelt     heard


20

THE FOX AND THE LION

    Once a fox heard a lion roar.
    He was afraid and ran off.
    But the lion did not chase him.


21

    Next morning the fox again met the lion.
    He looked at its great size and was not afraid.
    The lion roared, but the fox did not run.
    This time he felt safe.

                                        --ÆSOP.


   22         23         24         25

  bowl      scrape     first        dash
  floor      clean     sec ond      lash
  side        lean     third       flash
  be side     bean     fourth       rash
  a round     mean     fifth        sash
  bot tom     like     moth er      cash

[Illustration]


26

  scratch    catch    match
    patch    latch    hatch


27

    Jack likes to scrape the cake bowl.
    Mother sets it on the floor.
    Jack sits down beside it.
    First he scratches around the side.
    Then he scrapes the bottom clean.


    28         29         30         31

  float     In di an      boy       pond
   boat     flow er       joy       fond
   coat     heart         toy       bond
   goat     lil y         coy      blond
    oats    gold en      Troy      which

Why do _Indian_ and _Troy_ begin with capitals?

Don’t forget the _e_ in _heart_.

Be very careful in spelling _which_.


32

THE FIRST WATERLILY

[Illustration]

    One night an Indian boy saw a star fall.
    Next morning he found a new flower.
    It had a golden star in its heart.
    It floated on a still pond.
    This was our first waterlily.

                                        --INDIAN MYTH.


    33         34          35         36

     own      trace        cut     goose
   known      place        but     geese
   shown       race        hut     strange
   grown      grace        nut     sor ry
  thrown       face        rut     ev er y
   blown       lace       shut     ev er y bod y
    sown      space     oth er     ev er y thing
    laid    thought    in side     an oth er


37

THE GOLDEN EGGS

    A man once owned a strange goose.
    Every day she laid a golden egg.
    The man thought she must be full of gold.
    He killed the goose and cut her open.
    But not a trace of gold could he find.
    She was just like other geese.
    Then how sorry the man felt!


                                        --ÆSOP.

[Illustration]


     38         39          40         41

  pic ture    bough        ap ple     au tumn
  bar rel     branch       bas ket    leaf
  lad der     limb         han dle    sour
  climb       slip pers    bus y      sug ar
  gath er     toe          curls      ripe

What letters are not sounded in _climb_, _limb_, _autumn_?

Be sure you say _basket_ correctly.


42

GATHERING APPLES

  It is autumn.
  The apples are ripe.
  The children are busy gathering them.
  These are not sour apples.
  They are as sweet as sugar.


      43         44         45         46

    roll        root      mo ment     week
    toll        boot      min ute     peek
  stroll        hoot      hour        seek
   knoll        soot      month      cheek
   south      dai ly      north       meek


47

  to day     to night     to mor row     yes ter day
            af ter noon           eve ning


    48         49         50         51

  steal      al most    bet ter     age
   meal      beau ty    let ter    rage
   deal      than       beg        cage
   heal      work       leg        page
   seal      ei ther    keg       stage
   thus     nei ther    peg        wage

There is only one _l_ in _almost_.

Look at _ei_ in _either_ and _neither_.


52

  Almost never wins.

                                        --GERMAN.

  A thing of beauty is a joy forever.

                                        --JOHN KEATS.

  Better beg than steal,
  But better work than either.

                                        --RUSSIAN.

  He buys very dear who begs.

                                        --PORTUGUESE.

The following review words are often misspelled. Each has a little
“catch” in it. Are you going to be caught by these little words? Use
the king’s third rule. _See_ what is hard in each word, then you can
soon learn how to spell them all.


         53                   54        55

  there     over there       any       been
  their     their books     many       some
  don’t     do not         which       once
  can’t     can not        could       does
  won’t     will not       would       sure
  hear      I hear        should       where
  here      Come here       hour       just

People who misspell _which_ and _where_ do not say the _h_ in these
words. Do you?

People who misspell _just_ do not see the letters of the little word
_us_ in the middle. They do not say the word right. Do you?

Which words have silent letters?


56

  but ter         pret ty         sun ny
  but ter cups    com ing         oh

[Illustration]


57

      Buttercups and daisies,
    Oh the pretty flowers!
      Coming in the springtime,
    Tell of sunny hours.

                                        --MARY HOWITT.

When _ing_ is added to _come_ to make _coming_, the _e_ is dropped.

Look at _e_ in _pretty_.


    58         59         60         61

    aid       pea        faint       wear
   maid       sea        paint       bear
   paid       lea        saint       tear
   laid       tea        dain ty     pear
  sto ry      fix       out side    these


     62         63          64        65

   harm       fel low       ink      bunch
    arm       yel low     think      lunch
  charm       feath er     sink      does not
   farm       weath er     pink      doesn’t
   farm er    leath er     wink      help
   your       move        drink      point

Be sure to pronounce the _you_ in _your_.


66

    When about to put your words in ink,
    It will do no harm to stop and think.

  A grain does not fill a sack but it helps its fellows.

                                        --SPANISH.

  A feather will point the wind.

                                        --DANISH.


67

  cart        tart        dart        art
  part       start       chart      smart


      68         69         70           71

  po ta toes    God       noth ing       talk
  lamb          food      an y thing     walk
  mouth         mon ey    some thing    chalk
  wolf          gives     some time     bun ny
  heav y        giv en    some bod y    fun ny
  ov er         soft      a like        gave


72

  Doing nothing is doing ill.

                                        --SCOTTISH.

  Lambs don’t run into the mouth of the sleeping wolf.

                                        --DANISH.

  God gives every bird its food,
      but does not throw it into
      the nest.

                                        --J. G. HOLLAND.

[Illustration]


73

  la zy       sheep       wool       harm

  Potatoes don’t grow by the side of the pot.

                                        --DUTCH.

  A lazy sheep thinks its wool heavy.

                                        --SCOTTISH.

  Want of care does more harm than want of money.

                                        --BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.


74

  through        a mong        Bil ly        that is
  mead ow        pa per        know          that’s

Look carefully at _ough_ in _through_, _ea_ in _meadow_, and _o_ in
_among_.


75

      This I know, I love to play,
    Through the meadow, among the hay,
      Up the water and over the lea,
    That’s the way for Billy and me.

                                        --JAMES HOGG.


76

  care ful        riv er       worth        house
  care less       up set       what ev er   mouse

Look carefully at the _o_ in _worth_.


77

  Be careful in all things.

  A little stone may upset a large cart.

                                        --ITALIAN.

  A mouse can drink no more than its fill from a river.

                                        --CHINESE.

  Whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well.

                                        --CHESTERFIELD.



78

  he ro         fruit         climb         hon ey
  eas y          have            or         mon ey

Look carefully at the _i_ in _fruit_, the _o_ in _honey_ and _money_,
and the _b_ in _climb_.

_Easy_ is a word often misspelled.

Remember the King’s third rule.


79

  Who does the best he can is a hero.

                                        --JOSH BILLINGS.

  He who would have the fruit must climb the tree.

                                        --SPANISH.

    No bees, no honey;
    No work, no money.

  It is as easy to grin as to growl.

                                        --FRENCH.

[Illustration]


     80         81               82

   task       laugh         care       hare
   cask       laugh ing     dare       fare
  flask       doc tor       bare       pare
   mask       world        scare      stare
   ask        smile         rare      snare
   asked       mile        spare      glare
   ask ing    while        share     square


83

    Laugh at your ills,
      And save doctor’s bills.

                                        --SPANISH.

  Smile on the world and it will smile on you.

                                        --ITALIAN.

  A light heart, a light task.

                                        --FRENCH.


84

  work    friend    none    hap py
  true                      hap pi ness

Look carefully at the _o_ in _work_ and in _none_, the _i_ in _friend_
and in _happiness_.


85

  Be true to your word, your work, and your friend.

                                        --JOHN BOYLE O’REILLY.

  Love all, do wrong to none.

                                        --SHAKESPEARE.

    All who joy would win
    Must share it--Happiness was born a twin.

                                        --BYRON.


     86          87         88          89

  al ways        east     spo ken     blue
  be have       least     bro ken      due
  whole         feast       a ble      cue
  man ner ly    beast      ta ble     glue
  du ty         yeast      fa ble      hue

There is only one _l_ in _always_.


90

    A child should always say what’s true,
    And speak when he is spoken to,
    And behave mannerly at table;
    At least as far as he is able.

                                        --STEVENSON.

[Illustration]


    91        92       93         94

  much       hard    haste        hole
  re main    card    has ten     whole
  of ten     yard    taste       stole
  tar dy    guard    paste        pole
  ar rive    lard    waste        sole
  learn      hurt    it self     print

The letter _t_ is not sounded in _often_, but don’t leave it out when
you spell the word.

Look at _u_ in _guard_.

Remember the _w_ in _whole_.


95

  Haste not, rest not.

                                        --GOETHE.

  Too swift arrives as tardy as too late.

                                        --SHAKESPEARE.

  Who hastens too much often remains behind.

                                        --GERMAN.

  Learn to creep before you run.

                                        --SCOTTISH.


     96           97             98         99

  e lev en     six teen       thir ty     cream
  twelve       sev en teen    for ty       team
  thir teen    eight een      fif ty       beam
  four teen    nine teen      six ty      dream
  fit teen     twen ty        hun dred    steam


        100                    101

  Sun day     Sun.       Wednes day    Wed.
  Mon day     Mon.       Thurs day     Thurs.
  Tues day    Tues.      Sat ur day    Sat.
  Fri day     Fri.       Jan u a ry    Jan.

Look at the _d_ and the second _e_ in _Wednesday_ and the _u_ in
_Saturday_.


       102                 103

  speak     leak       cane      pane
   weak     peak       lane      vane
   beak    freak       mane     crane


         104                    105

  child      lov ing      end      tend
   mild      giv ing     send     spend
   wild      liv ing     lend      bend
   woe    hap pi est     mend

When _ing_ is added to _love_, _give_, and _life_, _e_ is dropped. What
letter is changed in _life_?

[Illustration]


106

BIRTHDAYS

              Monday’s child is fair of face,
              Tuesday’s child is full of grace,
              Wednesday’s child is full of woe,
            Thursday’s child has far to go,
          Friday’s child is loving and giving,
        Saturday’s child must work for a living;
      But the happiest child of all, they say,
    Is the child who is born on the week’s first day.


   107           108

  dish         pie
  fin ger      please
  thumb        such
  stock ing    piece
  bus y        sleeve

[Illustration]


109

    Such a busy girl!
    She is peeling apples for a pie.
    Please give me a piece of pie.


    110      111         112        113

  dress     wrist      skirt        neck
  guess      mist      shirt        deck
  bless     twist       dirt        peck
   less      fist       flirt      check
  press     young       suf fer    speck


     114                      115

  Jan u a ry    Jan.      Sep tem ber    Sept.
  Feb ru a ry   Feb.      Oc to ber      Oct.
  A pril        Apr.      No vem ber     Nov.
  Au gust       Aug.      De cem ber     Dec.

[Illustration]


116

  dance     do not      world is
  mu sic    don’t       world’s
  sulk


117

THE WORLD’S MUSIC

    The world’s a very happy place,
    Where every child should dance and sing,
    And always have a smiling face,
    And never sulk at anything.

                                        --GABRIEL SETOUN.


   118        119         120       121

   store     re turn      dog     change
    wore     count        log     says
    more     car ried    frog     mis take
   shore     for get      hog     dol lars
  or der     sign        form     pen ny


122

JACK’S ORDER BOOK

  Every day Jack goes to the store for mother.
  He writes her orders in a book.
  He says it is a real order book.
  He never forgets anything.


123

  When he returns he counts his change.
  He never makes a mistake.
  He has carried many dollars and never lost a cent.
  Every day mother signs the order book.

       124              125           126

  doz en      doz.     cheese       or ange
  pound       lb.      fresh        ber ry
  pounds      lbs.     loaf         ber ries
  gal lon     gal.     loaves       oat meal
  quart       qt.      flour        soap
  pint        pt.      oil          add


TWO PAGES FROM JACK’S ORDER BOOK

      127                      128

  Mon., June 7           Fri., June 11

  1 lb. cheese.          1 bag flour
  1 doz. fresh eggs      3 gal. oil
  1 loaf bread           1 doz. oranges
  1 qt. berries          1 box oatmeal
  1 pt. cream            6 cakes soap
  5 lbs. sugar           3 loaves bread
  1 lb. tea              1 lb. candy


129

  sea sons           fire
            sum mer

[Illustration]

    Sing a song of seasons,
    Something bright in all,--
    Flowers in the summer,
    Fires in the fall.

                                        --STEVENSON.


130

   lip      nip     grip      chip
  drip      tip     whip       hip
   dip     slip     skip      ship


131

  raise     dust      turn    churn
  road      dust y    burn    e ven


132

THE FLY ON THE CART WHEEL

    Once there was a fly on a cart wheel.

    The wheel turned round and the dust from the road rose
    in clouds.

    “Oh,” cried the fly, “what a dust we raise!”

    But the wheel did not even know that the fly was there.

                                        --ÆSOP.


    133      134      135       136

  hun ter    dug      dull     mat ter
  teeth      bug      hull    plat ter
  tooth      rug     skull    scat ter
  him self   tug     since    flat ter
  whom       jug    hasn’t    chat ter


137

THE HUNTER AND THE LION

 “Have you seen any tracks of a lion?” asked a hunter of a man whom he
 met.

 “Oh, I can show you the lion himself,” said the man.

 The hunter turned pale with fright. His teeth chattered.

 “I don’t want to see the lion. I only want to see his tracks,” he
 cried.

                                        --ÆSOP.


   138     139       140        141

    oak    pale      rush     dip per
  cloak    tale     brush    slip per
  croak    gale     crush    skip per
   soak    sale      hush    drip ping
   move    scale     mush    whip ping
  tenth    whale    blush     tip ping


REVIEW OF TROUBLESOME WORDS


     142        143        144       145

  friend      Tuesday    making     just
  always      won’t      having     doctor
  done        too        coming     know
  heard       two        loving     minute
  Wednesday   among      writing    blue
  February    busy       buy        through
  very        none       week       every


   146       147       148       149

  whole     shoes     piece     often
  there     any       been      sugar
  their     many      once      hour
  don’t     which     does      says
  here      could     sure      laid
  can’t     should    where     break
  world     would     climb     flour


The following 100 words have been found to be the “One Hundred
Commonest Words in the English Language.” They are used and repeated so
frequently in our writing that they constitute about one half of all
the words we write. You have studied all of them. Can you spell each of
them correctly?

  the     will     my        had
  and     as       this      has
  of      have     his       very
  to      not      which     were
  I       with     dear      been
  a       be       from      would
  in      your     are       she
  that    at       all       or
  you     we       me        there
  for     on       so        her
  it      he       one       an
  was     by       if        when
  is      but      they      time
  go      please   letter    do
  some    week     make      after
  any     night    write     than
  can     their    thing     sir
  what    other    think     last
  send    up       should    house
  out     our      truly     just
  them    good     now       over
  him     say      its       then
  more    could    two       work
  about   who      take      day
  no      may      thank     here


THIRD YEAR VOCABULARY

[Illustration]

We have followed the king’s rules. We can spell all these words. Can
you?

  able      another    asking     beam
  add       anything   August     bean
  afraid    apple      autumn     bear
  afternoon April      bank       beast
  age       arm        bare       beauty
  aid       around     barrel     became
  alike     arrive     basket     been
  almost    art        battle     beg
  always    ask        beach      behave
  among     asked      beak       belt
  bend      branch     cart       clever
  berries   broken     case       climb
  berry     brush      cash       cloak
  beside    bug        cask       coat
  better    bunch      catch      coming
  Billy     bunny      cattle     could
  bless     burn       chalk      count
  bliss     busy       change     country
  blond     but        charm      crane
  blown     butter     chart      crank
  blue      buttercups chase      cream
  blush     cage       chatter    croak
  boat      cane       check      crush
  bond      can’t      cheek      cue
  boot      card       cheese     cure
  bottom    care       child      curls
  bough     careful    chip       cut
  bowl      careless   churn      daily
  boy       carried    clean      dainty
  dance     dream      enter      fifteen
  dare      dress      even       fifth
  dart      drink      evening    fifty
  dash      drip       ever       finger
  deal      dripping   every      fire
  December  dropped    everybody  first
  deck      due        everything fist
  dip       dug        fable      fix
  dipper    dull       face       flash
  dirt      dust       faint      flask
  dish      dusty      fare       flatter
  doctor    duty       farm       flirt
  does      each       farmer     float
  doesn’t   east       feast      floor
  dog       easy       feather    flour
  dollar    eighteen   February   flower
  don’t     either     feel       follow
  dozen     eleven     fellow     fond
  drank     end        felt       food
  form      given      hare       hiss
  forget    giving     harm       hog
  forty     glare      hasn’t     hole
  fourteen  glue       haste      honey
  fourth    goat       hasten     hoot
  fox       God        hatch      horse
  freak     golden     have       hour
  fresh     goose      heal       house
  Friday    grace      hear       hue
  friend    great      heard      hull
  frog      grip       heart      hundred
  fruit     grown      heave      hunter
  funny     guard      heavy      hurt
  gale      guess      heel       hush
  gallon    handle     help       hut
  gather    happiest   here       I’m
  gave      happiness  hero       Indian
  geese     happy      himself    ink
  give      hard       hip        inside
  its       lard       limb       meek
  itself    lash       lion       melt
  January   latch      lip        mend
  joy       laugh      living     mild
  jug       laughing   loaf       mile
  just      leaf       loaves     minute
  keg       leak       log        miss
  kiss      lean       loving     mist
  kneel     learn      lunch      mistake
  knelt     least      maid       moment
  knife     leather    mane       Monday
  knoll     leave      mannerly   money
  know      leg        many       month
  known     lend       mask       more
  lace      less       match      morning
  ladder    letter     matter     mother
  laid      life       meadow     mouse
  lamb      lily       meal       mouth
  lane      like       mean       move
  much      off        paper      pitcher
  music     often      pare       place
  neck      oh         part       platter
  neither   oil        paste      please
  never     once       patch      point
  next      or         pea        pole
  nineteen  orange     peach      pond
  nip       order      pear       post
  none      other      peak       potatoes
  north     outside    peck       pound
  nothing   over       peek       preach
  November  own        peel       press
  number    ox         peg        pretty
  nut       oxen       penny      print
  oak       page       picture    proof
  oar       paid       pie        punch
  oatmeal   paint      piece      pure
  oats      pale       pink       quart
  October   pane       pint       race
  rage      rush       September  size
  raise     rut        seventeen  skip
  rank      safe       seventy    skipper
  rare      saint      sever      skirt
  rash      sale       shall      skull
  rattle    sash       share      sleeve
  reach     Saturday   ship       slip
  read      says       shirt      slippers
  remain    scale      shoes      smart
  return    scare      shore      smile
  rider     scatter    should     snare
  ripe      scrape     shown      soak
  river     scratch    shut       soap
  road      sea        side       soft
  roar      seal       sign       sole
  roll      seasons    since      some
  roof      second     sink       somebody
  root      seek       sixteen    something
  rug       send       sixty      sometime
  sorry     stone      task       thirty
  sour      store      taste      this
  south     story      tea        through
  sown      strange    teach      thrown
  space     strife     team       thumb
  spare     stroll     tear       Thursday
  speak     such       teeth      thus
  speck     suffer     tend       tip
  spelt     sugar      tenth      tipping
  spend     sulk       than       today
  spoken    summer     thank      toe
  square    Sunday     that’s     toll
  stage     sunny      their      tomorrow
  stare     sure       there      tonight
  start     table      these      tooth
  steal     tale       think      toy
  steam     talk       third      trace
  stocking  tardy      thirsty    Troy
  stole     tart       thirteen   true
  trust     water      while      wore
  Tuesday   weak       whip       work
  tug       wear       whipping   world
  turn      weather    whole      worth
  twelve    weave      whom       wrist
  twenty    Wednesday  wife       yard
  twist     week       wild       yeast
  upset     whale      wink       yellow
  vane      whatever   wire       yesterday
  wage      wheel      wolf       young
  walk      where      woe        your
  waste     which      won’t




  THE ALDINE SPELLER

  PART II

  FOURTH YEAR

[Illustration]


1

  A mer i ca
  A mer i can
  Pil grim
  moun tain
  free dom
  lib er ty
  it is
  ’tis


2

AMERICA

    My country, ’tis of thee,
    Sweet land of liberty,
        Of thee I sing;
    Land where my fathers died,
    Land of the Pilgrims’ pride,
    From every mountain-side
        Let freedom ring.

                                        --SAMUEL FRANCIS SMITH.


3

  breath
  breathes
  soul
  na tive

    Breathes there a man with soul so dead,
    Who never to himself hath said,
    “This is my own, my native land”?

                                        --SIR WALTER SCOTT.


          4                     5

  wolf      re ply      as sist      pit y
  wolves    re plied    poor         pit ied
        crea ture             a lone

See what happens to _y_ in _reply_ and _pity_ when _ed_ is added.

When _es_ is added to _wolf_ see what happens to _f_. In what other
words does this happen?


6

    One day a fox fell into a well. He howled aloud.

    A wolf ran to see what the matter was.

    “Poor creature,” said the wolf, “how I pity you!”

    “Don’t pity me,” replied the fox. “Assist me.”

                                        --ÆSOP.


           7                       8

  e nough    con tent    trav el       pock et
    tough    rich        trav el er    emp ty
    rough    a muse      purse         re cov er


9

  health    wealth    rob ber

  Health is the best wealth.

  Poor and content is rich, and rich enough.

                                        --SHAKESPEARE.

  Better an empty purse than an empty head.

                                        --GERMAN.

  The traveler with empty pockets fears no robber.


10

  be come    be gin         be gun       be fore
  be long    be gin ning    be low       be fore hand

[Illustration]


    11          12         13

  torn        stitch     trou ble
  tum ble     a cross    af ter ward
  a shamed    beg gar    loose
  nurse       pun ish    blis ter
  bruise      fault      her self
  comb        of fer     gar den

Look thoughtfully at _ui_ in _bruise_, _au_ in _fault_, _oo_ in
_loose_, _ou_ in _trouble_.

There is only one _c_ in _across_.

       *       *       *       *       *

Look at the picture, then write five sentences about it, using as many
words as you can from Lessons 11, 12, and 13.


14

  an ger     bos om    jus tice      win dow
         sur round              foot

    When anger in the bosom lies,
    Justice out the window flies.


         15                  16

  sil ver    lady        fur      elm
  shad y     lad ies     cur      sir
  shad ow    sat in     church    birch

The _y_ in _lady_ changes to _i_ and _es_ is added when we mean more
than one _lady_--_ladies_.

Look at the _u_ in _church_ and the _i_ in _birch_.


17

    The silver birch is a dainty lady,
    She wears a satin gown;
    The elm tree makes the old churchyard shady,
    She will not live in town.

                                        --EDITH NESBIT.


18

  voice       breeze       touch
    vi o let            breath

    The rough voiced breeze that shook the trees
    Was touched by a violet’s breath.


   19         20          21        22

  left       camp       nar row      fir
  cit y      lamp       ma ple     grove
  o’clock    damp       beech      drove
  front      called     spruce     stove
  path       field      for est     cove

Look at _o_ in _front_, _ie_ in _field_, and _ple_ in _maple_.

Do not forget the apostrophe in _o’clock_.


23

  We left the city at six o’clock.
  The camp is in a grove of fir, maple, beech, and spruce trees.
  Jack called the grove our forest.
  In front of the camp is the river.
  A narrow path leads across a field to its banks.


24

  lum ber    tim ber    boards    car pen ter
      shin gle               sea shore


   25           26         27           28

  build        inch       un der      re al ly
  build ing    inch es    be neath    porch
  built        firm       gi ant      dis tant
  south        sol id     whose       dis tance
  seems        fort       square      broad


29

  The camp was built of native lumber.

  The building was firm and solid as a fort.

  The boards were over an inch thick.

  It stood under a giant tree whose branches really seemed
  to touch the distant sky.

  On the south side was a broad square porch.


          30                 31

  ham mock  at tic     eaves     can dle
  buck et   cel lar    lan tern  moon light
       shov el             cor ner

Make a sentence telling how the camp was lighted at night.


     32        33           34            35

  di vide    break fast  pre pare       chance
  la bor     din ner     fish           watch
  e qual     sin ner     veg e ta ble   dan ger
  e qual ly  win ner     cot tage       stran ger
  en joy     pro vide    i dle          an y way

Look carefully at the second _e_ in _vegetable_.


36

  At camp the labor is divided. None are idle.

  All enjoy an equal chance to help.

  Jack prepares breakfast and dinner.

  Frank provides fish and vegetables.

  The dog watches that no danger comes near the cottage.


         37                   38

  cab bage  squash      ba na na   rai sins
  car rot   to ma to    cur rants  ol ive
  rad ish   tur nip     grape      prune
        on ion               lem on

[Illustration]


39

  kitch en         re move           ash es
            ov en           kin dle

  Remove the ashes.
  Kindle the fire.
  Have a hot oven.
  Sweep the kitchen.


   40         41         42         43

  salt     sprin kle    juice     cher ry
  so da     wrin kle    juic y    choc o late
  stir      pud ding    fork      dough
  spoon     bis cuit    pep per   dough nut
  coal      ket tle     pour      jel ly

[Illustration]


    44         45

  flow er    heav en
  show er    si lent
  bow er     de light
  tow er     high
  won der    mir ror


46

    The moon, like a flower,
    In heaven’s high bower,
    With silent delight
    Sits and smiles at the night.


FLOWER AND FAIRY WORDS


    47         48         49          50

  pur ple    na ture     ti ny       col or
  pan sy     fan cy      fair y      scar let
  li lac     blos som    fair ies    beau ti ful
  com mon    bush        fa vor      laugh ter
  wreath     lawn        mer ry      dan de li on


REVIEW OF TROUBLESOME WORDS


   51         52        53        54

  used       loose     wear      built
  color      lose      early     easy
  break      enough    sugar     beginning
  know       any       minute    wrote
  tonight    shoes     tear      sure
  laid       said      read      knew
  would      once      does      heard
  doctor     piece     just      writing
  write      having    says      whole
  often      guess     done      none

Each of the words on this page has some little “catch” in it. Try to
find what is difficult in each word. Make a list of all you misspell.
Keep this list on your desk or somewhere handy. Study whenever you get
a chance. Don’t let these simple, everyday words master you. _Master
them._


55

  o bey    com mand    busi ness    serve

Look at _e_ in obey, _i_ in _business_.

Only two syllables in _business_.

 He that has learned how to obey will know how to command.

                                        --SOLON.

 If you would have your business done, go; if not, send.

                                        --FRANKLIN.

 He is best served who serves himself.


         56                       57

  tru ly    po lite      re main        ac tion
  ounce     ex am ple    re main der    ad vice

No _e_ in _truly_; _ai_ in _remain_; _c_ in _advice_.

 Better an ounce of example than a pound of advice.

 Words pass away, but actions remain.

                                        --NAPOLEON.

 Truly polite, always polite.


    58          59

  lis ten      bud
  rip ple      bud ding
  flut ter     mud
  blue bird    mud dy
  to ward      fence

[Illustration]


60

      Listen a moment, I pray you;
    What was that sound that I heard?
      Wind in the budding branches,
              The ripple of brooks, or a bird?
      Hear it again, above us; and see a flutter of wings.
      The bluebird knows it is April, and soars toward the sun and
        sings.

                                        --EBEN REXFORD.


61

  bob o link       pi geon    spar row     hawk
          hand some             won der ful


    62        63           64         65

  bald       brief        aw ful     cir cle
  ea gle     grief        se vere    home
  ar row     com plete    ar rive    dome
  mur der    cru el       man age    Rome
  breast     wound        glance     bod y

Look at _a_ in _eagle_ and _breast_, _ie_ in _grief_ and _brief_, _e_
in _cruel_, _ou_ in _wound_.


66

THE EAGLE AND THE ARROW

[Illustration]

 A hunter once shot an eagle. Severely wounded, the bird managed to
 fly to his home. When he arrived he glanced at the cruel arrow in his
 breast. It was winged with one of his own feathers.

 “Oh,” he cried, “to think I have been murdered by an arrow that I
 helped to make!”

                                        --ÆSOP.


    67           68               69          70

  learn ing    in vite          har vest     boil
  wis dom      in vi ta tion    this tle     soil
  cloth        com pa ny        whis tle     toil
  clothes      pea cock         ex pect     toi let
  be gan       how ev er        in deed     suit


71

 Learning is not wisdom any more than cloth is clothes.

                                        --FRENCH.

 How can a sparrow expect to be invited into the company of a peacock?

                                        --HANS ANDERSEN.

 He that has a good harvest may be content with some thistles.

                                        --SCOTTISH.


      72                73

  calm    waist    debt     moan
  palm    crumb    mourn    col umn

Find a silent letter in every word in Lessons 72 and 73.


    74             75          76           77

  ad mire       great ness    death       thank ful
  ad mir ing    ab sent       at tempt    suc cess
  grum ble      pres ent      half        suc ceed
  grum bling    cow ard       halves      peo ple
  lev el        thous and     be cause    thorn

_E_ is omitted in _admire_ and _grumble_ when ing is added. What
changes are made in the word _half_ when we mean more than one half?


78

 In admiring greatness we rise to its level.

 He who killed a lion when absent, feared a mouse when present.

                                        --FRENCH.

 A coward dies a thousand deaths.

                                        --GERMAN.

 A bold attempt is half success.

                                        --DANISH.

 Some people are always grumbling because roses have thorns. I am
 thankful that thorns have roses.

                                        --KARR.

[Illustration]


79

  pal ace     hum ble     though      roam
        a mid       ’mid      pleas ure

    ’Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam,
    Be it ever so humble, there’s no place like home.

                                        --JOHN HOWARD PAYNE.

 Home is where love is.


    80          81          82           83

  wig wam    cup board    pi an o      cur tain
  cab in     cham ber     book case    so fa
  cas tle    par lor      al bum       vase
  pan try    bed room     blot ter     Bi ble
  clos et    bath room    car pet      quilt

[Illustration]


    84            85          86          87

  ache         bus i ly      chi na      wipe
  head ache    pleas ant     brit tle    fore noon
  ly ing       qui et ly     warm        a pron
  sur prise    quick ly      wash        tow el
  lin en       daugh ters    soft        fin ish

When _ly_ is added to _busy_, _y_ is changed to _i_.

There are _two s’s_ in _surprise_; one _l_ in _towel_.

Look at _ea_ in _pleasant_; _o_ in _apron_; _a_ in _wash_ and _warm_.

_Apron_ is pronounced _a pern_.


          88                       89

  sauce       rib bon     va ca tion    be tween
  sauc er     whis per    to geth er    scour
  plen ty     bas in      grate ful     praise


90

MOTHER’S HELPERS

Mother has a headache this forenoon and is lying down. Her two
daughters are working busily to give her a pleasant surprise.

“Work quietly and quickly, but carefully,” said Kate. “China is very
brittle. I’ll wash the dishes in warm water. You wipe them with this
soft linen towel. Between us we will soon finish.”


     91          92         93          94

  fam i ly    neph ew    neigh bor    mas ter
  grand pa    cous in    vis it or    tax
  grand ma    in fant    mem ber      ma chine
  aunt        wo man     butch er     fur nace
  un cle      wo men     gro cer      fu el


     95           96           97          98

  splen did       edge      ter ri ble     swept
  might y        ledge      storm          slept
  strength       wedge      ex plain     ten der
  up root ed    pledge      in stead    slen der
  straight      sledge      an swered    fen der


99

THE OAK AND THE REED

 A _mighty_ oak that had been uprooted by a _terrible_ storm, lay on
 the bank of a river.

 On the edge of the water grew a straight slender reed.

 “What, are you still growing!” said the oak. “I was big and strong.
 You are little and weak.”

 “I can _explain_,” _answered_ the reed. “You fought the _storm_ as it
 swept by. So you were _uprooted_ for all your _splendid_ strength.
 Instead of fighting the storm, I bent to it, and I still stand.”

                                        --ÆSOP.

Rewrite the above fable, using other words in place of those that are
italicized.


100

  a gainst
  de pends
  worth
  ton
  al ways

 A pound of pluck is worth a ton of luck.--

                                        GARFIELD.

 Luck is always against the man who depends upon it.


101

  li ar
  crip ple
  truth
  be lieve
  pun ish ment

 A liar is sooner caught than a cripple.

                                        --PORTUGUESE.

 A liar’s punishment is in not being believed when he speaks the truth.


102

  mod est
  mod est y
  sel dom
  jew el
  jew el ry
  much

 A modest dog seldom grows fat.

                                        --DANISH.

 Modesty is a jewel, but one may wear too much jewelry.

 Do noble things, not dream them, all day long.

                                        --KINGSLEY.


    103         104             105          106

  jour ney    ves sel          en gine      sta ble
  ca noe      car go           rail road    sta tion
  fer ry      cam el           rail way     de pot
  mo tor      bi cy cle        trol ley     ga rage
  har bor     au to mo bile    bal loon     pier

[Illustration]


107

  choice    sort       mount
  choose    pre fer    trip


108

  far ther    pub lic    rath er    de sire
  driv en     push       vis it     gone

What sort of travel do you prefer? You may have your choice. Mount
your bicycle for a short trip. If you desire to go farther, there is
the automobile or the public trolley. Or would you rather go by the
railroad?


    TRAVEL WORDS              GEOGRAPHY WORDS

   109        110             111           112

  a gent     rap id         vil lage       globe
  tick et    mo tion        cit ies        sphere
  de part    cap tain       cap i tal      ho ri zon
  de lay     of fi cer      con ti nent    lo cate
  ho tel     con duct or    val ley        north ern

Look at _tion_ in _motion_, the second _o_ in _conductor_, _ph_ in
_sphere_, the ending in _cities_. There are several words on this
page that you will misspell if you are not careful to pronounce them
correctly.


113

  wel come    serv ant    hun ger

 Welcome is the best dish on the table.

                                        --SCOTTISH.

 The master of the house is the servant of the guest.

                                        --PERSIAN.

 Hunger is the best sauce.


    114         115          116         117

  show er y    dawn        troop er     slope
  pow er       un less     hoop         rope
  warn         yel low     loop         scope
  in vade      with in     stoop        hope
  bu gle       with out    pa rade      hope ful
  held         their       pa rad ed    hop ing


118

THE DANDELIONS

[Illustration]

    Upon a showery night and still,
      Without a sound of warning,
    A trooper band surprised the hill,
      And held it in the morning.

    We were not waked by bugle-note,
      No cheer our dreams invaded,
    And yet at dawn their yellow coats
      On the green slopes paraded.

                                        --HELEN GRAY CONE.


    119         120            121           122

  sor ry      judge        for give ness    angry
  sor row     judg ing     pa tient         dis tress
  bor row     tongue       dis be lieve     dis tressed
  e vil       par don      re port          tale-bearer
  con duct    cheer ful    cour age         at ten tion

Look thoughtfully at _tongue_ and _patient_; the _o_ in _courage_ and
the _tion_ in _attention_.


123

There are ten things for which no one has ever yet been sorry. These
are--for doing good to all; for speaking evil of none; for hearing
before judging; for thinking before speaking; for holding an angry
tongue; for being kind to the distressed; for asking pardon for all
wrongs; for being patient towards everybody; for stopping the ears to a
tale-bearer; for disbelieving most of the ill reports.


    124          125        126        127

  Frank lin    per haps    sprout     wil low
  wharf        no tice     cheap      bil low
  Hol land     sin gle     leap       pil low
  else         tu lip      heap       U ni ted
  short        bulb        reap       States
  near ly      close       bas ket    morn ing


128

While Franklin was walking on a wharf one morning, he saw some cheap
willow baskets in which some tulip bulbs had been brought from Holland.
Perhaps no one else would have noticed the single short green sprout on
one of the willows. Franklin cut it off carefully and planted it. From
this one sprout have grown most of the basket willows in the United
States.

    A man’s best things are nearest him,
    Lie close about his feet.


WORDS OFTEN HEARD IN SCHOOL

    129          130         131          132

  pri ma ry    cor rect    ex act        his to ry
  writ ten     schol ar    ex er cise    charge
  prompt       er ror      jan i tor     en e my
  re peat      ex cuse     your self     can non
  ob serve     taught      col o ny      un der stand


    133          134         135          136

  neg lect     per fect     po em        a rith me tic
  un ion       lan guage    au thor      di vide
  at tack      cop y        sen tence    di vi sor
  chap ter     com ma       ti tle       div i dend
  liq uid      pe ri od     dic tate     sport


    137          138         139          140

  meas ure     curve        e rect       weigh
  min u end    carve        cough        weight
  bush el      up per       re cess      o mit
  draw ing     up right     base         mod el
  spel ling    re cite      base ball    an nu al

[Illustration]


    141          142          143          144

  pic nic      cot ton       wool        dif fer ent
  u su al      mus lin       wool en     dif fer ence
  jol ly       col lar       sweat       swamp
  ar ranged    neck tie      sweat er    par ty
  car riage    blouse        pas ture    lem on ade
  flan nel     o ver alls    or chard    co coa


145

THE PICNIC

Summer is the usual time for picnics, but mother arranged a jolly one
for us last fall.

Instead of cotton or muslin dresses, the girls wore flannel ones. The
boys left their collars and neckties at home, and wore old blouses and
overalls. We all wore woolen sweaters.

We did not go in carriages. We walked across the pasture, through the
orchard to the grove on the other side of the swamp. Ours was a nutting
party.

Our picnic was different from summer picnics in other ways. Instead of
cold lemonade we had hot cocoa, and we ate our lunch in the sunniest
place we could find, by a great rock. It was almost night when we
reached home, and we all ran to the fire to warm our fingers and toes.


146

Make a sentence using the following words.

  scat tered       crowd  de cid ed     search
          chest nuts             wal nuts


          147                     148

  sand wich    fudge       squir rel    club
  pic kle      chick en    a corn       tur key
  nap kin      hun gry     rab bit      crick et


    149           150             151            152

  false         hon est         prom ise       faith
  false hood    hon est y       birth          faith ful
  quar rel      no ble          knight         how ev er
  val or        hon or          knight hood    loy al
  for tune      hon or a ble    what ev er     loy al ty


153

    He who is honest is noble,
    Whatever his fortunes or birth.

                                        --ALICE CARY.

 Stand by your promise, your honor, your faith, as loyally as the
 knights of old.

                                        --GEORGE HERBERT.

[Illustration:

  BRAVE GOOD
        AND·TRUE
]

Here are some of the most commonly used, most commonly misspelled,
words. You have studied every one of them. Are you sure that you can
and do spell every one correctly?

  piece      raise     busy       write
  beginning  wrote     color      writing
  though     enough    guess      here
  coming     truly     says       hear
  early      sugar     believe    done
  instead    straight  knew       women
  easy       could     February   always
  through    much      Wednesday  where
  every      minute    lose       been
  half       Tuesday   loose      friend
  none       wear      would      business
  often      answer    once       money
  cough      trouble   does       their
  ache       among     heard      there
  break      said      know       sure


FOURTH YEAR VOCABULARY

  absent      amuse      attention   bedroom
  ache        anger      attic       beech
  acorn       angry      aunt        before
  across      annual     author      beforehand
  action      answered   automobile  beggar
  admire      any        awful       begin
  admiring    anyway     bald        beginning
  advice      apron      balloon     begun
  afterward   arithmetic banana      believe
  against     arranged   base        belong
  agent       arrive     baseball    below
  album       arrow      basket      beneath
  alone       ashamed    basin       between
  always      ashes      bathroom    Bible
  America     assist     beautiful   bicycle
  American    attack     because     billow
  amid        attempt    become      birch
  birth       breathes   cabin       chance
  biscuit     breeze     called      chapter
  blister     brief      calm        charge
  blossom     brittle    camel       cheap
  blotter     broad      camp        cheerful
  blouse      bruise     candle      cherry
  bluebird    bucket     cannon      chestnuts
  boards      bud        canoe       chicken
  bobolink    bugle      capital     china
  body        build      captain     chocolate
  boil        building   cargo       choice
  bookcase    built      carpenter   choose
  borrow      bulb       carpet      church
  bosom       bush       carriage    circle
  bower       bushel     carrot      cities
  break       busily     carve       city
  breakfast   business   castle      close
  breast      butcher    cellar      closet
  breath      cabbage    chamber     cloth
  clothes     corner     curve       disbelieve
  club        correct    damp        distance
  coal        cottage    dandelion   distant
  cocoa       cotton     danger      distress
  collar      cough      daughter    distressed
  colony      courage    dawn        divide
  color       cousin     death       dividend
  column      cove       debt        divisor
  comb        coward     decided     doctor
  comma       creature   delay       does
  command     cricket    delight     dome
  common      cripple    depart      done
  company     crowd      depend      dough
  complete    cruel      depot       doughnut
  conduct     crumb      desire      drawing
  conductor   cupboard   dictate     driven
  content     cur        difference  drove
  continent   currants   different   eagle
  copy        curtain    dinner      early
  easy        expect     firm        garage
  eaves       explain    fish        garden
  edge        fairies    flannel     giant
  elm         fairy      flower      glance
  else        faith      flutter     globe
  empty       faithful   foot        gone
  enemy       false      forenoon    grandma
  engine      falsehood  forest      grandpa
  enjoy       family     forgiveness grape
  enough      fancy      fork        grateful
  equal       farther    fort        greatness
  equally     fault      fortune     grief
  erect       favor      Franklin    grocer
  error       fence      freedom     grove
  evil        fender     front       grumble
  exact       ferry      fudge       grumbling
  example     field      fuel        guess
  excuse      finish     fur         half
  exercise    fir        furnace     halves
  hammock     honor      invite      know
  handsome    honorable  janitor     labor
  harbor      hoop       jelly       ladies
  harvest     hope       jewel       lady
  having      hopeful    jewelry     laid
  hawk        horizon    jolly       lamp
  headache    hotel      journey     language
  health      however    judge       lantern
  heap        humble     judging     laughter
  heard       hunger     juice       lawn
  heaven      hungry     juicy       leap
  held        idle       just        learning
  herself     inch       justice     ledge
  high        inches     kettle      left
  history     indeed     kindle      lemon
  Holland     infant     kitchen     lemonade
  home        instead    knew        level
  honest      invade     knight      liar
  honesty     invitation knighthood  liberty
  lilac       mid        murder      offer
  linen       mighty     muslin      officer
  liquid      minuend    napkin      often
  listen      minute     narrow      olive
  locate      mirror     native      omit
  loop        moan       nature      once
  loose       model      nearly      onion
  lose        modest     necktie     orchard
  loyal       modesty    neglect     ounce
  loyalty     moonlight  neighbor    oven
  lumber      morning    nephew      overalls
  lying       motion     noble       palace
  machine     motor      none        palm
  manage      mount      northern    pansy
  maple       mountain   notice      pantry
  master      mourn      nurse       parade
  measure     much       obey        paraded
  member      mud        observe     pardon
  merry       muddy      o’clock     parlor
  party       pity       provide     rather
  pasture     pleasant   prune       read
  path        pleasure   public      really
  patient     pledge     pudding     reap
  peacock     plenty     punish      recess
  people      pocket     punishment  recite
  pepper      poem       purple      recover
  perfect     polite     purse       remain
  perhaps     poor       push        remainder
  period      porch      quarrel     remove
  piano       pour       quickly     repeat
  pickle      power      quietly     replied
  picnic      praise     quilt       reply
  piece       prefer     rabbit      report
  pier        prepare    radish      ribbon
  pigeon      present    railroad    rich
  pilgrim     primary    railway     ripple
  pillow      promise    raisins     roam
  pitied      prompt     rapid       robber
  Rome        sentence   slept       spruce
  rope        servant    slope       square
  rough       serve      soda        squash
  said        severe     sofa        squirrel
  salt        shadow     soft        stable
  sandwich    shady      soil        station
  satin       shingle    solid       stir
  sauce       shoes      sorrow      stitch
  saucer      short      sorry       stone
  says        shovel     sort        stoop
  scarlet     shower     soul        storm
  scattered   showery    sparrow     stove
  scholar     silent     spelling    straight
  scope       silver     sphere      stranger
  scour       single     splendid    strength
  search      sinner     spoon       strict
  seashore    sir        sport       succeed
  seems       sledge     sprinkle    success
  seldom      slender    sprout      sugar
  suit        thousand   travel      upper
  sure        ticket     traveler    upright
  surprise    timber     trip        uprooted
  surround    tiny       trolley     used
  swamp       ’tis       trooper     usual
  sweat       title      trouble     vacation
  sweater     together   truly       valley
  swept       toil       truth       valor
  tale-bearer toilet     tulip       vase
  taught      tomato     tumble      vegetable
  tax         ton        turkey      vessel
  tear        tongue     turnip      village
  tender      tonight    uncle       violet
  terrible    torn       under       visit
  thankful    touch      understand  visitor
  their       tough      union       voice
  thistle     toward     unite       waist
  thorn       towel      united      walnuts
  though      tower      unless      warm
  warn        whisper    without     wound
  wash        whistle    wolf        wreath
  watch       whole      wolves      wrinkle
  wealth      whose      woman       write
  wear        wigwam     women       writing
  wedge       willow     wonder      written
  weigh       window     wonderful   wrote
  weight      winner     wool        yellow
  welcome     wipe       woolen      yourself
  wharf       wisdom     worth
  whatever    within     would

[Illustration:

  VAN REES
  PRESS

  NEW YORK
]

       *       *       *       *       *




Transcriber’s note


Minor punctuation errors have been changed without notice.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ALDINE SPELLER: PART TWO ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

The Project Gutenberg eBook of An account of some recent discoveries in hieroglyphical literature, and Egyptian antiquities including the author's original alphabet, as extended by Mr. Champollion, with a translation of five unpublished Greek and Egyptian manuscripts
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: An account of some recent discoveries in hieroglyphical literature, and Egyptian antiquities including the author's original alphabet, as extended by Mr. Champollion, with a translation of five unpublished Greek and Egyptian manuscripts

Author: T. F. Young

Release date: September 1, 2024 [eBook #74347]

Language: English

Original publication: UK: John Murray, 1823

Credits: The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AN ACCOUNT OF SOME RECENT DISCOVERIES IN HIEROGLYPHICAL LITERATURE, AND EGYPTIAN ANTIQUITIES INCLUDING THE AUTHOR'S ORIGINAL ALPHABET, AS EXTENDED BY MR. CHAMPOLLION, WITH A TRANSLATION OF FIVE UNPUBLISHED GREEK AND EGYPTIAN MANUSCRIPTS ***






    DISCOVERIES

    IN

    HIEROGLYPHICAL LITERATURE.


    HOWLETT and BRIMMER, PRINTERS,
    FRITH STREET, SOHO.




    AN ACCOUNT

    OF

    SOME RECENT DISCOVERIES

    IN

    HIEROGLYPHICAL LITERATURE,

    AND

    EGYPTIAN ANTIQUITIES.

    INCLUDING

    THE AUTHOR’S ORIGINAL ALPHABET,

    AS EXTENDED BY MR. CHAMPOLLION,

    WITH A

    TRANSLATION OF FIVE UNPUBLISHED GREEK AND
    EGYPTIAN MANUSCRIPTS.

    BY THOMAS YOUNG, M.D.F.R.S.

    FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS.


    LONDON:

    JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

    1823.




    TO ALEXANDER BARON VON HUMBOLDT,

    AS A MARK OF THE HIGHEST RESPECT,
    FOR THE EXTENT OF HIS KNOWLEDGE
    AND THE ACCURACY OF HIS RESEARCH,
    AS WELL AS
    FOR HIS ARDENT ZEAL IN THE PROMOTION OF SCIENCE,
    AND FOR HIS CANDOUR AND VIGILANCE
    IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF LITERARY JUSTICE,
    THIS WORK IS DEDICATED
    BY HIS OBLIGED FRIEND,

    THE AUTHOR.


VOLVENDA DIES EN ATTULIT ULTRO!




CONTENTS.


                                                                    Page

    PREFACE                                                           IX


    CHAPTER I.

    _Introductory Sketch of the prevalent Opinions respecting
    Hieroglyphics_                                                     1


    CHAPTER II.

    _Investigations founded on the Pillar of Rosetta_                  8


    CHAPTER III.

    _Additional Inferences, deduced from the Egyptian
    Manuscripts, and from other Monuments_                            15


    CHAPTER IV.

    _Collections of the French.--Mr. Drovetti.--Mr. Champollion’s
    Discoveries_                                                      34


    CHAPTER V.

    _Illustrations of the Manuscripts brought from Egypt
    by Mr. Grey_                                                      55


    CHAPTER VI.

    _Extracts from Diodorus and Herodotus; relating to
    Mummies_                                                          87


    CHAPTER VII.

    _Extracts from Strabo; Alphabet of Champollion;
    Hieroglyphical and Enchorial Names_                              116


    CHAPTER VIII.

    _Chronological History of the Ptolemies, extracted from
    various Authors_                                                 130


    APPENDIX I.

    _Greek text of the Manuscripts and Registries_                   145


    APPENDIX II.

    _Specimens of Hieroglyphics_                                     153




PREFACE.


A complete confirmation of the principal results, which I had some
years since deduced, from an examination of the hieroglyphical
monuments of ancient Egypt, having been very unexpectedly derived from
the ulterior researches of Mr. Champollion, and from the singular good
fortune of Mr. George Grey, I cannot resist the natural inclination, to
make a public claim to whatever credit may be my due, for the labour
that I have bestowed, on an attempt to unveil the mystery, in which
Egyptian literature has been involved for nearly twenty centuries.

If, indeed, I have not hitherto wholly withheld from the public the
results of my inquiries, it has not been from the love of authorship
only, nor from an impatience of being the sole possessor of a secret
treasure; but because I was desirous of securing, at least, for my
country, what is justly considered as a desirable acquisition to every
country, the reputation of having enlarged the boundaries of human
knowledge, and of having contributed to extend the dominion of the mind
of man over time, and space, and neglect, and obscurity. _Corona in_
SACRIS CERTAMINIBUS _non victori datur, sed_ PATRIA _ab eo coronari
pronuntiatur_. And whatever vanity or enthusiasm there might be in this
sentiment, it was at least sincere and unaffected.

In the mean time my Egyptian investigations had been as laborious as
they had been persevering: and like many other pursuits, in which I
have been engaged, they had been so little enlivened by any fortunate
coincidences, or unexpected facilities, that having occasion to adopt
a motto for the signatures of some anonymous communications, I had
chosen the words FORTUNAM EX ALIIS, as appropriate to my own history.
But the new lights, which Mr. Champollion has obtained, and the
marvellous accident of the existence of a Greek manuscript, in perfect
preservation, which I found, when Mr. Grey had obligingly left it for
my examination, to be the translation of a unique hieroglyphic papyrus,
lately purchased by the King of France; these circumstances have so far
changed the complexion of my literary adventures, that if I remained
any longer in masquerade, I should certainly be compelled to adopt the
character of POLYCRATES or of ALADDIN.

It would indeed have been a little hard, that the only single step,
which leads at once to an extensive result, should have been made by
a Foreigner, upon the very ground which I had undergone the drudgery
of quietly raising, while he advanced rapidly and firmly, without
denying his obligations to his predecessor, but very naturally, under
all circumstances, without exaggerating them, or indeed very fully
enumerating them. I should not have repined, even if no counterpart
to his good fortune had occurred for my own advantage and assistance;
but the exhilaration of a success, so unexpected, has brought me more
immediately and more openly before the public, than it was previously
my intention to appear, in relation to a pursuit so remote from the
nature of many other duties which I am bound to fulfil.

It may naturally be expected that I should make some apology, for
what is generally considered as a violation of professional decorum;
for presuming to appear again before the public, without absolute
necessity, in any other capacity than that of a practical physician.
I have indeed myself observed, on a former occasion, that the public
is inclined to think, and not without something like reason, that the
abilities of different individuals are pretty nearly equal; and that if
any one has distinguished himself in a particular department of study,
he must have bestowed so much the less time and attention on other
departments: that, of course, if he excelled in more than one line, out
of his profession, the natural inference would be so much the stronger:
and that whether this may be fair or not, it is at least fair, that
direct evidence should be produced or imagined of a devotion to medical
pursuits, before medical confidence can reasonably be expected.

My explanation then is, that I consider myself as having already
produced to the public _more than sufficient_ “evidence” of my claim
to this “medical confidence”; and that, having now acquired the right
to celebrate a YEAR of JUBILEE, I think myself fully justified in
endeavouring, without further regard to the strict etiquette of my
profession, to obtain, while I have yet a few years more to live and
to learn, whatever respect may be thought due to the discoveries, which
have constituted the amusement of a few of my leisure hours.

In addition to this apology, perhaps already too long, I will venture
to state, as a matter of anecdote, the train of occurrences that has
accidentally led me to engage in these pursuits. To begin therefore
with the beginning, or rather before the beginning, as the subject
of a preface may very naturally do: I had been induced by motives
both of private friendship, and of professional obligation, to offer,
to the editors of a periodical publication, an article, which I
thought would be of some advantage to their collection, containing an
abstract of Adelung’s Mithridates, a work then lately received from
the continent. In reading this elaborate compilation, my curiosity
was excited by a note of the editor, Professor Vater, in which he
asserted that the unknown language of the Stone of Rosetta, and of the
bandages often found with the mummies, was capable of being analysed
into an alphabet consisting of little more than thirty letters: but
having merely retained this general impression, I thought no more of
these inscriptions, until they were recalled to my attention, by the
examination of some fragments of a papyrus, which had been brought
home from Egypt by my friend Sir William Rouse Boughton, then lately
returned from his travels in the East. With this accidental occurrence
my Egyptian researches began: their progress and termination will be
the subject of the present volume.

                                                                   T. Y.

    _Welbeck Street,
    1 March, 1823._




WORKS OF THE AUTHOR;

TO BE HAD OF THE PUBLISHER.


    1. A Course of Lectures on Natural Philosophy and the Mechanical
    Arts, 2 vols. 4to. 1807.

    2. An Introduction to Medical Literature, including a System of
    Practical Nosology, 8vo. Second edition, 1823.

    3. A Practical and Historical Treatise on Consumptive Diseases,
    8vo. 1815.

    4. Elementary Illustrations of the Celestial Mechanics of
    Laplace, 8vo. 1821.




DISCOVERIES

IN

HIEROGLYPHICAL LITERATURE.




CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY SKETCH OF THE PREVALENT OPINIONS RESPECTING HIEROGLYPHICS.


The Greeks and Romans, either from national pride, or from a want
of philological talent, were extremely deficient in their knowledge
of all such languages as they called barbarous, and they frequently
made up for their ignorance by the positiveness of their assertions,
with regard to facts which were created by their own imagination. It
was very currently believed, on their authority, not only that Egypt
was the parent of all arts and sciences, but that the hieroglyphical
inscriptions, on its public monuments, contained a summary of the most
important mysteries of nature, and of the most sublime inventions
of man: but that the interpretation of these characters had been so
studiously concealed by the priests, from the knowledge of the vulgar,
and had indeed been so imperfectly understood by themselves, that it
was wholly lost and forgotten in the days of the later Roman Emperors.
The story, however, of a reward, supposed to have been offered in
vain by one of the first of the Caesars, for an interpretation of the
inscription on an obelisc, then lately brought from Egypt to Rome,
appears to rest on no authentic foundation.

Among the works of more modern authors, who had employed themselves in
the study of the hieroglyphics, it is difficult to say whether those
were the more discouraging, which, like the productions of Father
Kircher and the Chevalier Palin, professed to contain explanations
of every thing, or which, like the ponderous volume of Zoëga on the
Obeliscs, confessed, after collecting all that was really on record,
that the sum and substance of the whole amounted absolutely to nothing.

Father Kircher’s six folios contain some tolerably faithful, though
inelegant, representations of the principal monuments of Egyptian art,
which had before his days been brought to Europe: and, according to his
interpretation, which succeeded equally well, whether he happened to
begin at the beginning, or at the end, of each of the lines, they all
contain some mysterious doctrines of religion or of metaphysics. With
equal sagacity, but with much less appearance of laborious research,
the Chevalier Palin, beginning, in one instance at least, by way of
variety, in the middle, has more recently discovered, that Hebrew
translations of many of the Egyptian consecrated rolls of papyrus are
to be found, in the Bible, under the name of the Psalms of David.
Whatever may be thought of the judgment of these antiquaries, their
opinions are not particularly discreditable to their talents and
ingenuity: for having once allowed themselves to set out with the
mistaken notion, that it was possible to determine the sense of the
hieroglyphics, by internal evidence and by the force of reasoning
only, the imperfections of their superstructures were the unavoidable
consequences of the unsubstantial nature of the foundations, on which
they were raised.

There was indeed a traditional record of the true sense of one
single character, denoting LIFE, which had been handed down by the
ecclesiastical writers, and had been generally received as correct by
scholars and antiquaries: although I cannot help suspecting that Sir
Archibald Edmonstone’s memory deceives him when he remarks, that the
same symbol is often substituted, in Christian inscriptions, for the
simpler sign of the cross, with which they more commonly begin. We
also find some imperfect hints of a partial knowledge of the sense of
the hieroglyphics in the puerile work of Horapollo, which is much more
like a collection of conceits and enigmas than an explanation of a real
system of serious literature: and while such scattered truths were
confounded with a multitude of false assertions, it was impossible to
profit by any of them, without some clue to assist us in the selection.
For my own part, if I had ever read of the true signification of the
handled cross, it had entirely escaped my recollection.

The French expedition to Egypt was most liberally provided, by
the government of the day, with a select body of antiquaries, and
architects, and surveyors, and naturalists, and draughtsmen, whose
business it was to investigate all that was interesting to science or
to literature in that singular country. Their labours have been made
public, with all the advantages of chalcographical and typographical
elegance, in the splendid collection, entitled _Description de
l’Égypte_. But it is scarcely too much to say, that the only real
benefit, conferred on Egyptian literature, by that expedition, was
the discovery of a huge broken block, of black stone, in digging for
the foundations of Fort St. Julian, near Rosetta, which the British
army had afterwards the honour of bringing to this country, as a
proud trophy of their gallantry and success. It is not to a want of
ability, nor of industry, nor of accuracy, nor of fidelity, in the
Egyptian Commission, that so total a failure is to be attributed; but
partly to the real difficulty of the subject, and still more to the
preconceived opinion, which was very generally entertained by their
men of letters, of the exorbitant antiquity of the Egyptian works of
art, which caused them to neglect the lights, that might have been
derived, from a comparison of Greek and Roman inscriptions, with the
hieroglyphics in their neighbourhood; and to suppose, that whatever
bore the date of less than thirty or forty centuries must necessarily
be an interpolation, unconnected with the original architecture and
decorations of the edifice, to which it belonged: and when a strong
prejudice has once been imbibed, we all know that the senses themselves
are perpetually blunted and perverted by it, even without the consent
of the reasoning powers. Mr. William Hamilton had, however, very
successfully brought forwards a variety of evidence, in favour of the
utility of the various inscriptions of the Greeks and Romans, for
ascertaining the date of many of the buildings to which they belong;
and the question, thus agitated between the French and the English
travellers, had already assumed somewhat of a national character.

A cursory inspection of the Greek inscription, contained in the
pillar of Rosetta, was sufficient to establish, as incontrovertible,
the opinion, which had been very ably maintained by our acute and
learned countryman Bishop Warburton, that the hieroglyphics, or sacred
characters, were not so denominated, as being exclusively appropriated
to sacred subjects, but that they constituted a real written language,
applicable to the purposes of history and common life, as well as
to those of religion and mythology; since this inscription speaks of
the three divisions of the pillar, as containing different versions
of the same decree, in the sacred and the vulgar character, and in
the Greek language, respectively: and, that there was no fraud in
this description, was at once made evident by the just observation
of Akerblad, who pointed out, at the end of the hieroglyphical
inscription, the three first numerals, indicated by I, II, and III,
respectively, where the Greek has “the first and the second ...”; the
end being broken off. It was also evident, that the hieroglyphical
language continued to be understood and employed in the time of Ptolemy
Epiphanes: but here the matter rested for several years; no single
representation of an existing object having been so identified, on
this or any other monument among the hieroglyphics, as to have its
signification determined, even by a probable conjecture.

In the mean time, the enterprising and enlightened Baron Alexander Von
Humboldt was contributing to illustrate the nature of hieroglyphical
languages, by his account of the Mexican drawings, contained in his
Views of the Cordilleras and Monuments of the American nations. The
symbols, however, of the Americans appear to have had little or nothing
in common with those of the Egyptians. The written language of the
Chinese, on the contrary, exhibits, in some cases, a much closer
analogy with that of ancient Egypt: and Mr. Barrow, by his clear and
concise explanation of the peculiar nature of the Chinese characters,
has contributed very materially to assist us in tracing the gradual
progress of the Egyptian symbols through their various forms; although
the resemblance is certainly far less complete than has been supposed
by Mr. Palin, who tells us, that we have only to translate the Psalms
of David into Chinese, and to write them in the ancient character of
that language, in order to reproduce the Egyptian papyri, that are
found with the mummies.




CHAPTER II.

INVESTIGATIONS FOUNDED ON THE PILLAR OF ROSETTA.


The pillar of Rosetta was now safely and quietly deposited in the
British Museum; the Society of Antiquaries had engraved, and very
generally circulated, a correct copy of its three inscriptions; and
several of the best scholars of the age, in particular Porson and
Heyne, had employed themselves in completing and illustrating the
Greek text, which constituted the third part of the inscription: and
it so happened that, although no person acquainted with both these
critics could hesitate to give the general preference, for acuteness
of observation, and felicity of conjecture, and soundness of judgment,
to the English professor, yet in this instance the superior industry
and vigilance of the German had given him decidedly the advantage, with
respect to two or three passages, in which their translations happen to
differ.

But Greek was already sufficiently understood, both in London and
at Gottingen, to make this part of the investigation comparatively
insignificant. Mr. Akerblad, a diplomatic gentleman, then at Paris,
but afterwards the Swedish resident at Rome, had begun to decipher
the middle division of the inscription; after De Sacy had given up
the pursuit as hopeless, notwithstanding that he had made out very
satisfactorily the names of Ptolemy and Alexander. But both he and
Mr. Akerblad proceeded upon the erroneous, or, at least imperfect,
evidence of the Greek authors, who have pretended to explain the
different modes of writing among the ancient Egyptians, and who have
asserted very distinctly that they employed, on many occasions,
an alphabetical system, composed of twenty five letters only. The
characters of the second part of the inscription being called in the
Greek ENCHORIA GRAMMATA, or letters of the country, it was natural to
look among these for the alphabet in question: and Mr. Akerblad, having
principally deduced his conclusions from the preamble of the decree,
which consists in great measure of foreign proper names, persisted, to
the time of his death, in believing, that this part of the inscription
was throughout alphabetical. I have called these characters enchoric,
or rather _enchorial_: Mr. Champollion has chosen to distinguish them
by the term _demotic_, or popular; perhaps from having been in the
habit of employing it before he was acquainted with the denomination
which I had appropriated to them: in my opinion, the priority of my
publication ought to have induced him to adopt my term, and to suppress
his own, rather than to add another useless synonym, for what the
ancients, when speaking with accuracy, would probably have described as
the “epistolographic” form of writing employed by the Egyptians: for
we have no means of determining the precise nature of the characters
called _popular_ by Herodotus.

Mr. Akerblad was far from having completed his examination of the whole
enchorial inscription, apparently from the want of some collateral
encouragement or cooperation, to induce him to continue so laborious an
inquiry; and he had made little or no effort to understand the first
inscription of the pillar, which is professedly engraved in the sacred
character, except the detached observation, respecting the numerals at
the end: he was even disposed to acquiesce in the correctness of Mr.
Palin’s interpretation, which proceeds on the supposition, that parts
of the first lines of the hieroglyphics are still remaining on the
stone.

It was natural to expect, that, after the possibility of a partial
success, in this part of the undertaking, had been almost demonstrated
by what Mr. Akerblad had cursorily observed, the critics and
chronologists of all civilised countries would have united, heart and
hand, in a common effort to obtain a legitimate solution of all the
doubts and difficulties, in which the early antiquities of Egypt had
long remained involved. But, excepting Mr. Champollion and myself, they
have all chosen to amuse themselves with their own speculations and
conjectures: the mathematicians of France have continued to calculate,
and the metaphysicians of England have continued to argue, upon
elements which it was impossible either to prove or disprove; while the
fortuitous coincidences of some accidental results, with the collateral
testimony of history or of astronomy, have been forced into the service
of the delusion, as evidences of the truth of the hypotheses from which
they had been deduced. Nor are these amusements even at this moment
discontinued, by some persons, who have shown themselves capable of
doing better things.

It was early in the year 1814, that I had been examining the fragments
of papyrus brought from Egypt by Mr. Boughton; and that, after looking
over Mr. Akerblad’s pamphlet in a hasty manner, I communicated a few
anonymous remarks on them to the Society of Antiquaries. In the summer
of that year, I took the triple inscription with me to Worthing,
and there proceeded to examine first the enchorial inscription, and
afterwards the sacred characters. By an attentive and methodical
comparison of the different parts with each other, I had sufficiently
deciphered the whole, in the course of a few months, to be able
to send, as an appendix to the paper printed in the Archaeologia,
a translation of each of the Egyptian inscriptions considered
separately, distinguishing the contents of the different lines, with
as much precision as my materials would enable me to obtain. It is
evident that this division of the translation supposes, in general, a
distinction of the significations of the single words; and that any
person, with a little attention, might retrace my steps, with regard to
the sense that I attributed to each part of the two inscriptions. I was
obliged to leave many important passages still subject to some doubt,
and I hoped to acquire additional information, before I attempted to
determine their signification with accuracy; but, having made the
first great step, I concluded that many others might be added with
facility and with rapidity. In this conclusion, however, I was somewhat
mistaken; and when we reflect that, in the case of the Chinese, the
only hieroglyphical language now extant, it is considered as a task
requiring the whole labour of a learned life, to become acquainted
with the greater part of the words, even among those who are in the
habit of employing the same language for the ordinary purposes of
life, and who have the assistance of accurate and voluminous grammars
and dictionaries: we shall then be at no loss to understand that a
hieroglyphical language, to be acquired by means of the precarious aid
of a few monuments, which have accidentally escaped the ravages of time
and of barbarism, must exhibit a combination of difficulties almost
insurmountable to human industry.

I had thought it necessary, in the pursuit of the inquiry, to make
myself in some measure familiar with the remains of the old Egyptian
language, as they are preserved in the Coptic and Thebaic versions
of the Scriptures; and I had hoped, with the assistance of this
knowledge, to be able to find an alphabet, which would enable me to
read the enchorial inscription at least into a kindred dialect. But,
in the progress of the investigation, I had gradually been compelled
to abandon this expectation, and to admit the conviction, that no
such alphabet would ever be discovered, because it had never been in
existence.

I was led to this conclusion, not only by the untractable nature of
the inscription itself, which might have depended on my own want of
information or of address, but still more decidedly by the manifest
occurrence of a multitude of characters, which were obviously imperfect
imitations of the more intelligible pictures, that were observable
among the distinct hieroglyphics of the first inscription: such as
a Priest, a Statue, and a Mattock or Plough, which were evidently,
in their primitive state, delineations of the objects intended to be
denoted by them, and which were as evidently introduced among the
enchorial characters. But whether or no any other significant words
were expressed, in the same inscription, by means of the alphabet
employed in it for foreign names, I could not very satisfactorily
determine.

A cursory examination of the few well identified characters, amounting
to about 90 or 100, which the hieroglyphical inscription, in its
mutilated state, had enabled me to ascertain, was however sufficient
to prove, first, that many simple objects were represented, as might
naturally be supposed, by their actual delineations; secondly, that
many other objects, represented graphically, were used in a figurative
sense only, while a great number of the symbols, in frequent use,
could be considered as the pictures of no existing objects whatever;
thirdly, that, in order to express a plurality of objects, a dual was
denoted by a repetition of the character, but that three characters of
the same kind, following each other, implied an indefinite plurality,
which was likewise more compendiously represented by means of three
lines or bars attached to a single character; fourthly, that definite
numbers were expressed by dashes for units, and arches, either round
or square, for tens; fifthly, that all hieroglyphical inscriptions
were read from front to rear, as the objects naturally follow each
other; sixthly, that proper names were included by the oval ring, or
border, or _cartouche_, of the sacred characters, and often between
two fragments of a similar border in the running hand; and, seventhly,
that the name of Ptolemy alone existed on this pillar, having only
been completely identified by the assistance of the analysis of the
enchorial inscription. And, as far as I have ever heard or read, _not
one_ of these particulars had ever been established and placed on
record, by _any other_ person, dead or alive.




CHAPTER III.

ADDITIONAL INFERENCES, DEDUCED FROM THE EGYPTIAN MANUSCRIPTS, AND FROM
OTHER MONUMENTS.


My full conviction respecting the nature and origin of the enchorial
character I expressed at the end of a collection of letters, inserted
in the MUSEUM CRITICUM, and published in 1815. It was not, however,
till the next year, that I obtained the most complete evidence of
the truth of my opinion: having been obligingly accommodated, by Mr.
William Hamilton, with the use of his copy of the great _Description
de l’Égypte_, as far as it was then published, I proceeded to study
its contents: and I discovered, at length, that several of the
manuscripts on papyrus, which had been carefully published in that
work, exhibited very frequently the same text in different forms,
deviating more or less from the perfect resemblance of the objects
intended to be delineated, till they became, in many cases, mere lines
and curves, and dashes and flourishes; but still answering, character
for character, to the hieroglyphical or hieratic writing of the same
chapters, found in other manuscripts, and of which the identity was
sufficiently indicated, besides this coincidence, by the similarity of
the larger tablets, or pictural representations, at the head of each
chapter or column, which are almost universally found on the margins
of manuscripts of a mythological nature. And the enchorial inscription
of the pillar of Rosetta resembled very accurately, in its general
appearance, the most unpicturesque of these manuscripts. It did not,
however, by any means agree, character for character, with the “sacred
letters” of the first inscription, though in many instances, by means
of some intermediate steps derived from the manuscripts on papyrus, the
characters could be traced into each other with sufficient accuracy,
to supersede every idea of any essential diversity in the principles
of representation employed. The want of a more perfect correspondence
could only be explained, by considering the sacred characters as the
remains of a more ancient and solemn mode of expression, which had been
superseded, in common life, by other words and phrases; and, in several
cases, it seemed probable, that the forms of the characters had been
so far degraded and confused, that the addition of a greater number of
distinguishing epithets had become necessary, in order that the sense
might be rendered intelligible.

A particular account of this comparison of the different modes of
writing, and a detailed reference to the passages of the respective
manuscripts from which they were derived, is contained in two letters,
printed in 1816, as a part of the seventh number of the Museum
Criticum, and of which several copies were immediately sent to Paris,
and to other parts of the Continent, although the actual publication of
the number was retarded till 1821.

The principal contents of these letters were, however, incorporated
with other matter into a more extensive article, which I contributed
in 1819 to the Supplement of the Encyclopaedia Britannica. I had made
drawings of the plates, which were engraved with great fidelity by
Mr. Turrell, about a year before; and having been favoured by the
proprietors with a few separate copies, I had sent them to some of my
friends, in the summer of 1818, with a cover, on which was printed the
title Hieroglyphical Vocabulary: these plates, however, were precisely
the same that were afterwards contained in the fourth volume of the
Supplement, as belonging to the article Egypt.

The characters explained, with confidence, in this vocabulary, amounted
to about 200; the number which had been immediately obtained from the
pillar of Rosetta having been somewhat more than doubled by means of
a careful examination of other monuments, on which the terms god, and
king, and other epithets, already ascertained, were so applied as to
furnish either certain or probable conclusions respecting the principal
deities of the Egyptians, and respecting several of the latest and the
most celebrated of their sovereigns. The higher numerals were readily
obtained, by a comparison of some inscriptions, in which they stood
combined with units and with tens. The hieratic manuscripts assisted
also in this identification, by facilitating the determination of
the hieroglyphic corresponding to a given enchorial character. The
names of Phthah and of Apis were still left on the pillar: to these
I was now enabled to add, with tolerable certainty, those of Ammon,
or Jupiter, Phre, or the Sun, Rhea, or Urania, Ioh, or the Moon,
Thoth, or Hermes, Osiris, Arueris, or Apollo, Isis, Nephthe, Buto,
Horus, and Mneuis; besides a multitude of others, to whom I found it
convenient to appropriate fictitious or temporary appellations, for
the greater convenience of reference. Thus I have called Cerexochus, a
figure whose real name was perhaps Amonrasonther, and my Hyperion and
Platypterus are supposed by Mr. Champollion to belong to Horus and to
Hercules. Of the kings, I have ascertained, as far as the testimony
of the Greek and Latin historians and inscriptions would enable
me, the names of Mesphres, Memnon, Sesostris, Nechao, Psammis, and
Amasis; and having obtained the distinction of Ptolemy Soter from the
pillar, I afterwards determined, by its assistance, the name of his
queen Berenice. The termination indicating the female sex was another
important result of this comparison of various monuments.

I must acknowledge that my respect for the good sense and
accomplishments of my Egyptian allies by no means became more profound
as our acquaintance became more intimate: on the contrary, all that
Juvenal, in a moment, as might have been supposed, of discontent,
had held up to ridicule of their superstitions and their depravity,
became, as it were, displayed before my eyes, as the details of their
mythology became more intelligible. That Plato professed to have
learned much during a long residence in Egypt I can easily believe: he
may very probably have derived from thence some hints, that led to his
own purer doctrines of the immortality of the soul, although he may
have been tempted to exaggerate a little the other advantages of his
travels in search of truth; but that Pythagoras ever professed to have
acquired any solid knowledge from the Egyptians, appears to me to be
very inconsistent with what we know of the history of this illustrious
philosopher, speculative and visionary as some of his arithmetical
metaphysics seem to have been. I shall enter into some further details
of my conclusions, in the words which I have already employed in the
article EGYPT.

“By means of the knowledge of the hieroglyphical characters, which has
been already obtained, we are fully competent to form a general idea of
the nature of the inscriptions on the principal Egyptian monuments that
are extant. Numerous as they are, there is scarcely one of them which
we are not able to refer to the class either of sepulchral or of votive
inscriptions; astronomical and chronological there seem to be none,
since the numerical characters, which have been perfectly ascertained,
have not yet been found to occur in such a form as they necessarily
must have assumed in the records of this description: of a historical
nature, we can only find the triumphal, which are often sufficiently
distinguishable, but they may also always be referred to the votive;
since whoever, related his own exploits thought it wisest to attribute
the glory of them to some deity, and whoever recorded those of another
was generally disposed to intermix divine honours with his panegyric.
It has, indeed, been asserted, that the Egyptians were not in the habit
of deifying any mortal persons; but the inscription of Rosetta is by
no means the only one in which the sovereigns of Egypt are inserted in
the number of its deities; the custom is observable in monuments of a
much earlier age: indeed, in such a country, it might be considered as
a kind of dilemma of degradation, whether it was most ridiculous to be
made a divinity, or to be excluded from so plebeian an assemblage;
but flattery is more prone to err by commission than by omission,
and, consequently, we find the terms king and god very generally
inseparable. The sepulchral inscriptions, from the attention that was
paid in Egypt to the obsequies of the dead, appear, on the whole,
to constitute the most considerable part of the Egyptian literature
which remains, and they afford us, upon a comparative examination,
some very remarkable peculiarities. The general tenor of all these
inscriptions appears to be, as might be expected from the testimony of
Herodotus, the identification of the deceased with the god Osiris, and
probably, if a female, with Isis; and the subject of the most usual
representations seems to be the reception of this new personage by the
principal deities, to whom he now stands in a relation expressed in
the respective inscriptions; the honour of an apotheosis, reserved by
the ancient Romans for emperors, and by the modern for saints, having
been apparently extended by the old Egyptians to private individuals
of all descriptions[; as indeed appears to be partially hinted in the
concluding line of the golden verses of the Pythagoreans]. It required
an extensive comparison of these inscriptions to recognise their
precise nature, since they seldom contain a name surrounded by a ring
in its usual form: sometimes, however, as in the green sarcophagus
of the British Museum, a distinct name is very often repeated, and
preceded by that of Osiris; while, in most other instances, there
is a certain combination of characters, bearing evident relation to
the personage delineated, which occurs, after the symbols of Osiris,
instead of the name; so that either the ring was simply omitted on
this occasion, or a new and perhaps a mysterious name was employed,
consisting frequently of the appellations of several distinct deities,
and probably analogous to the real name[, which will, indeed, hereafter
appear to have consisted not uncommonly of a similar combination]. That
the characteristic phrase[, or group], so repeated, must have had some
relation to the deceased, is proved by its scarcely ever being alike
in any two monuments that have been compared, while almost every other
part of the manuscripts and inscriptions are the same in many different
instances, and some of them in almost all; and this same phrase
maybe observed in Lord Mountnorris’s and Mr. Bankes’s manuscripts,
placed over the head of the person who is brought up between the two
goddesses, to make his appearance before the true Osiris, in his own
person, and in his judicial capacity, with his counsellors about him,
and the balance of justice before him.” ...

“The tablet of the last judgment, which is so well illustrated by
the testimony of Diodorus concerning the funerals of the Egyptians,
is found near the end of almost all the manuscripts upon papyrus,
that are so frequently discovered in the coffins of the mummies, and
among others in Lord Mountnorris’s hieratic manuscript, printed in the
collection of the Egyptian Society. The great deity sits on the left,
holding the hook and the whip or fan; his name and titles are generally
placed over him; but this part of the present manuscript is a little
injured. Before him is a kind of mace, supporting something like the
skin of a leopard; then a female Cerberus, and on a shelf over her
head, the tetrad of termini, which have been already distinguished by
the names “Tetrarcha,” Anubis, Macedo, and “Hieracion,” each having
had his appropriate denomination written over his head. Behind the
Cerberis stands Thoth, with his style and tablet, having just begun
to write. Over his head, in two columns, we find his name and titles,
including his designation as a scribe. The balance follows, with a
little baboon as a kind of genius, sitting on it. Under the beam stand
“Cteristes” and “Hyperion” [supposed by Mr. Champollion to be Anubis
and Horus], who are employed in adjusting the equipoise; but their
names in this manuscript are omitted. The five columns over the balance
are only remarkable as containing, in this instance, the characteristic
phrase, or the name of the deceased, intermixed with other characters.
Beyond the balance stands a female, holding the sceptre of Isis, who
seems to be called Rhea, the wife of the Sun. She is looking back at
the personage, who holds up his hand as a mark of respect, and who
is identified as the deceased by the name simply placed over him,
without any exordium. He is followed by a second goddess, who is also
holding up her hands, in token of respect; and whose name looks like
a personification of honour or glory, unless it is simply intended to
signify “a divine priestess,” belonging to the order of the Pterophori,
mentioned on the Rosetta stone. The forty two assessors, [noticed by
Diodorus and by these manuscripts], are wanting in this tablet; and,
in many other manuscripts their number is curtailed, to make room for
other subjects; but, in several of those which are engraved in the
_Déscription de l’Egypte_, they are all represented, sometimes as
sitting figures, and sometimes standing as termini, with their feet
united.”

“The principal part of the text of all these manuscripts appears
to consist of a collection of hymns, or rather homages, to certain
deities, generally expressed in the name of the deceased, with his
title of Osiris, although the true Osiris is not excluded from the
groups that are introduced. The upper part of each manuscript is
occupied by a series of pictural tablets; under them are vertical
columns of distinct hieroglyphics, or, in the epistolographic
manuscripts, pages of the text, which are commonly divided into
paragraphs, with a tablet at the head of each; the first words being
constantly written with red ink, made of a kind of ochre, as the black
is of a carbonaceous substance. The beginning of the manuscripts
is seldom entire, being always at the outside of the roll; as the
_umbilicus_ of the Romans was synonymous with the end.” ...

“The coffins of the mummies, and the larger sarcophagi of stone, are
generally covered with representations extremely similar to some of
those which are found in the manuscripts. The judicial tablet is
frequently delineated on the middle of the coffins; above it are
Isis and Nephthe, at the sides, and apparently Rhea in the middle,
with outspread wings. The space below is chiefly occupied by figures
of twenty or thirty of the principal deities, to whom the deceased,
in his mystical character, is doing homage; each of them being
probably designated by the relationship in which he stands to the new
representative of Osiris. In the sculptures, the figures are generally
less numerous; the same deities are commonly represented as on the
painted coffins, but without the repetition of the suppliant, and
in an order subject to some little variation. The large sarcophagus
of granite, in the British Museum, brought from Cairo, and formerly
called the Lover’s Fountain, has the name of Apis, as a part of the
characteristic denomination. This circumstance, at first sight, seemed
to make it evident that it must have been intended to contain the mummy
of an Apis, for which its magnitude renders it well calculated; but
when the symbols of other deities were found in the mystic names upon
various other monuments, this inference could no longer be considered
as absolutely conclusive.” ...

“Of the triumphal monuments, the most magnificent are the obeliscs,
which are reported by Pliny to have been dedicated to the Sun; and
there is every reason to suppose, that the translation of one of these
inscriptions, preserved by Ammianus Marcellinus, after Hermapion,
contains a true representation of a part of its contents, more
especially as ‘the mighty Apollo’ of Hermapion agrees completely with
the hawk, the bull, and the arm, which usually occupy the beginning of
each inscription. These symbols are generally followed by a number of
pompous titles, not always very intimately connected with each other,
and among them we often find that of ‘Lord of the asp bearing diadems,’
with some others, immediately preceding the name and parentage of the
sovereign, who is the principal subject of the inscription. The obelisc
at Heliopolis is without the bull; and the whole inscription may be
supposed to have signified something of this kind.

    “THIS APOLLINEAN TROPHY IS CONSECRATED TO THE HONOUR OF
    KING ‘REMESSES,’ CROWNED WITH AN ASP BEARING DIADEM; IT IS
    CONSECRATED TO THE HONOUR OF THE SON OF ‘HERON,’ THE ORNAMENT
    OF HIS COUNTRY, BELOVED BY PHTHAH, LIVING FOR EVER; IT IS
    CONSECRATED TO THE HONOUR OF THE REVERED AND BENEFICIENT DEITY
    ‘REMESSES,’ GREAT IN GLORY, SUPERIOR TO HIS ENEMIES; BY THE
    DECREE OF AN ASSEMBLY, TO THE POWERFUL AND THE FLOURISHING, WHOSE
    LIFE SHALL BE WITHOUT END.”

“It is true, that some parts of this interpretation are in great
measure conjectural; but none of it is altogether arbitrary, or
unsupported by some probable analogy: and the spirit and tenor of the
inscription is probably unimpaired by the alterations, which this
approximation to the sense may unavoidably have introduced.

“Of the obeliscs, still in existence, there are perhaps about thirty,
larger and smaller, which may be considered as genuine. Several others
are decidedly spurious, having been chiefly sculptured at Rome, in
imitation of the Egyptian style, but so negligently and unskilfully,
as to have exhibited a striking difference even in the character of
the workmanship. Such are the Pamphilian, in explanation of which the
laborious Kircher has published a folio volume, and the Barberinian
or Veranian: in both of these the emblems are put together in a
manner wholly arbitrary; and when an attempt is made to imitate the
appearance of a name, the characters are completely different at each
repetition. The Sallustian obelisc has also been broken, and joined
inaccurately, and some modern restitutions have been very awkwardly
introduced, as becomes evident upon comparing with each other the
figures of Kircher and of Zoëga. [A similar restitution has been rather
better executed at one corner of the Lateran obelisc, as I observed
in the course of a few weeks that I passed at Rome in the summer of
1821: the block of granite, which has been employed, still exhibits
some words of a Latin inscription, turned upside down, but not effaced,
although the hieroglyphics belonging to the place have been imitated
with tolerable fidelity]. Another very celebrated monument, the Isiac
table, which has been the subject of much profound discussion, and
has given birth to many refined mythological speculations, is equally
incapable of supporting a minute examination upon solid grounds; for
the inscriptions neither bear any relation to the figures near which
they are placed, nor form any connected sense of their own; and the
whole is undoubtedly the work of a Roman sculptor, imitating only the
general style and the separate delineations of the Egyptian tablets; as
indeed some of the most learned and acute of our critical antiquaries
had already asserted, notwithstanding the contrary opinion of several
foreigners, of the highest reputation for their intimate acquaintance
with the works of Greek and Roman art. We may hope, however, that in
future these unprofitable discussions and disputes will become less and
less frequent, and that our knowledge of the antiquities of Egypt will
gain as much in the solidity and sufficiency of its evidence, as it may
probably lose in its hypothetical symmetry and its imaginary extent;
and while we allow every latitude to legitimate reasoning and cautious
conjecture, in the search after historical truths, we must peremptorily
exclude from our investigations an attachment to fanciful systems and
presupposed analogies on the one hand, and a too implicit deference to
traditional authority on the other.”

A few general remarks, that I had taken the liberty of sending out to
Mr. William Bankes, for his assistance in his Egyptian researches, had
been found of some utility in directing his attention to points of
the most material importance for the promotion of the investigation:
and even before the actual publication of the Supplement of the
Encyclopaedia, I had received from Egypt a very agreeable confirmation
of my opinions, in a letter addressed by Mr. Salt to Mr. William
Hamilton, of which I shall here insert an extract.

                                              “_Cairo, 1st May, 1819._

    “At Dakki in Nubia there is an inscription of the Ptolemies,
    over the principal entrance, that occupies a place evidently
    connected with the architecture; and on each side of this is a
    tablet of hieroglyphics, nearly similar one to the other. Now
    it struck me on the spot, that these, being nearly of the same
    length as the Greek tablet, might possibly contain a translation.
    I therefore referred to a letter in Mr. Bankes’s possession,
    containing some fifty explanations of hieroglyphics from Dr.
    Young, and was certainly gratified to find that in the oval
    [ring], conspicuous on each side, was the name of the “immortal
    Ptolemy”: and immediately afterwards the name of Hermes on one
    side, and of Isis on the other, to whom, by numerous Greek
    inscriptions, it is certain that the temple was dedicated. In
    following up this idea, I found, in other parts of the temple,
    the name of “Ptolemy“ without the “immortal,” over offering
    figures; and also those hieroglyphics which Dr. Young supposes
    to represent the names of Osiris, Isis, and Horus, as well as
    Hermes, over their respective figures, invariably, I may say,
    throughout the numerous representations on the walls....

                                                                 H.S.”

Upon Mr. Bankes’s return to England, he had the kindness and liberality
to allow me free access to the unequalled treasures of drawings
and inscriptions, that he had accumulated and brought home; and I
soon obtained a knowledge of several additional characters from the
comparison of these valuable documents. The most useful of these
was the symbol for BROTHER or SISTER, which appears to be the crook
generally seen in the hands of Osiris, and which is closely imitated
in the enchorial character that I had already ascertained. I found,
also, that the emblem which I had taken for MOTHER could only be
translated WIFE, as it was applied to Cleopatra with relation to her
husband Ptolemy; and that a FATHER was denoted by a bird with an
arm, as I had at first inferred from the pillar of Rosetta, though
I afterwards abandoned the opinion, from supposing that I had found
another emblem for Ptolemy Philopator. It happened, however, by mere
accident, that the advantage which I derived from this source was
much less considerable than might have been expected, both from its
abundance and from its uncontaminated purity; but I had been rather
disposed to defer the ultimate study of Mr. Bankes’s collections, till
their publication should give me a free right to employ them in any
manner that I might think proper. Some remarks, however, that occurred
to me in consequence of looking them over, I incorporated in a little
essay which I gave to Mr. Belzoni, and which makes the appendix to the
second edition of his travels. I have here observed, in speaking of the
reference of the supposed Jewish captives, exhibited in the catacomb
of my “Psammis,” to the expeditions of Necho to Jerusalem, in the
time of King Josiah and Jehoahaz, “that there are some difficulties
in reconciling the name of Psammis with some other monuments, and in
particular with a most important fragment of an enumeration of the
kings of Egypt, discovered by Mr. Bankes, at Abydos. In this there are
only two kings intervening between this Psammis and the Memnon of the
ancients: so that, if Pliny is right in his account of this obelisc,
the popular tradition respecting the colossus, supposed to represent
Memnon, must be erroneous. This, indeed, it would not be difficult
to admit, as very likely to have happened in the case of any popular
tradition; but there is a still greater difficulty in the inscription
found by Mr. Bankes on the leg of the colossus at Ebsambul, in which
Psammetichus is mentioned; and if this was the first Psammetichus, as
appears in some respects to be the more probable, it would follow that
the king who founded that temple was more ancient than Psammetichus.
But it is abundantly certain that our Psammis was prior to the founder
of that temple: so that either that Psammetichus must be of much later
date, as the employment of the Greek Ψ in the inscription would indeed
appear to indicate, or this catacomb was not constructed in honour of
the son of Pharaoh Necho. It has also been observed by an accomplished
scholar, who is much attached to the pursuit of Egyptian antiquities,
that, according to the testimony of Herodotus, all the kings of this
dynasty were buried at Saïs, and that we must either reject this
evidence, or admit that neither Psammis nor Necho can be the personage
here represented. We may, however, hope, that future researches will
furnish us with materials, that may enable us to remove this and many
other difficulties, which at present envelope the chronology of the
kings of Egypt.”




CHAPTER IV

COLLECTIONS OF THE FRENCH. MR. DROVETTI. MR. CHAMPOLLION’S DISCOVERIES.


Although the discovery of the general import of the hieroglyphics
has by no means excited any great sensation in this country, yet the
activity of the various collectors resident in Egypt seems to have been
in some measure stimulated by it. Important additions have been made,
or are about to be made, to the Egyptian department of the British
Museum; and in France, the magnificent liberality of the Government,
together with the insatiable curiosity of some affluent individuals,
has held out ample encouragement to the commercial antiquarian.

I thought myself extremely fortunate, in my return from the short
excursion to Rome and Naples, that I made in the autumn of 1821, to
have discovered at Leghorn, among a multitude of Egyptian antiquities,
belonging to Mr. Drovetti, the French consul at Alexandria, which had
long lain warehoused there, a stone containing an enchorial and a Greek
inscription, which was known to have existed formerly at Menouf, but
which had been lost and almost forgotten by European travellers in
Egypt, and I believe by Mr. Drovetti himself; for I am informed that
it is not mentioned in the catalogue of his Museum, which has been
sent to Paris and elsewhere. Although both the inscriptions appeared
to be almost illegible, yet I did not despair of being able, in a
proper light, and with sufficient patience, to decipher the greater
part; and I should have been tempted to remain a few days at Leghorn,
in order to make the experiment, if I could have obtained permission
from the merchants, to whose care the collection was entrusted. The
more, however, that I considered the importance of the only supplement
to the pillar of Rosetta, that then appeared to be in existence, the
more anxiety I felt to make some effort, to secure it from oblivion or
destruction; and with more simplicity, perhaps, than good policy, when
I returned to Pisa in the evening, I wrote a letter to MM. Mompurgo, of
which I shall here insert a translation.

    “_Gentlemen_,

    “Having fully reflected on the singular importance of the Greek
    inscription, which I mentioned to you this morning, and the
    irreparable misfortune that would be incurred, in case that the
    pillar containing it should ever be lost by shipwreck, I have
    determined to make you a proposal, which I hope you will not find
    any impropriety in accepting.

    “I am very desirous of sending an experienced artist from
    Florence, in order to make two impressions in plaster, and two
    tracings on paper, of this stone; upon condition, that they be
    considered as the property of Mr. Drovetti, and remain in your
    possession, until you have received his answer to the inquiry,
    whether he will permit them to be sent to London, either for
    myself or for the British Museum, and what price he would expect
    to receive for them. And in case that he should not think proper
    to fix such a price on them, as we might agree to pay, I am
    willing to consent, that they should remain in his collection,
    upon condition, however, that if this collection should ever
    be reembarked, for conveyance by sea, they should be kept at
    Leghorn, until the original stone should have arrived safely at
    the place of its destination, in order to avoid the chance of
    wholly losing this literary treasure by shipwreck.

    “Whatever may be Mr. Drovetti’s decision, I trust that this
    application, from one who flatters himself that he is the only
    person living, that can fully appreciate the value of the object
    in question, will at least not be disagreeable to him. I will
    beg of you to send me an early answer, directed to Schneiderff’s
    Hotel at Florence.

                                                T. Y. Sec. R. S. Lond.

    _Pisa, 5th Sept. 1821._”

MM. Mompurgo readily agreed to my proposal, and I engaged a
distinguished artist of Florence to undertake the performance of my
plan; but I believe he was accidentally prevented from fulfilling his
engagement. It appears, however, that his labour, as far as I was
concerned, would have been wholly lost; for Mr. Drovetti’s cupidity
seems to have been roused by the discovery of an unknown treasure,
and he has given me to understand, that nothing should induce him to
separate it from the remainder of his extensive and truly valuable
collection, of which he thinks it so well calculated to enhance the
price; and he refuses to allow any kind of copy of it to be taken.

But, as it often happens to those who are too eager to monopolize,
he has now outstood his market, and the pearl of great price, which
six months ago I would have purchased for much more than its value,
is now become scarcely worth my acceptance. I was principally anxious
to obtain from it a collateral confirmation of my interpretation of
the enchorial inscription of Rosetta; but having fortunately acquired
materials, from other sources, which are amply sufficient for this
purpose, I can wait, with great patience, for any little extension,
which my enchorial vocabulary might receive from this source. I had
inferred from a note, that had been sent me several years before,
respecting the stone of Menouf, by Mr. Jomard, that the first words of
the Greek inscription must have been ΒΑΣΙΛΕΙ ΠΤΟΛΕΜΑΙΩΙ ΝΕΩΙ ΔΙΟΝΥΣΩΙ,
but this was all that the gentleman, who described it, had even
attempted to copy.

The first circumstance, that repressed my eagerness to obtain a copy
of Drovetti’s inscriptions, was the arrival of Mr. Casati at Paris,
with a parcel of manuscripts, among which Mr. Champollion discovered
one that considerably resembled, in its preamble, the enchorial text of
the pillar of Rosetta: and the value of this discovery was afterwards
almost miraculously multiplied, by the existence of a Greek translation
of the same manuscript, which has been brought to London by Mr. Grey.

Having had occasion, in the month of September last, to accompany some
friends in a short visit to Paris, I was very agreeably surprised with
several literary and scientific novelties of uncommon interest, and all
of them such as either had originated, or might have originated, from
my own pursuits. I had first the pleasure of hearing, at a meeting of
the Academy of Sciences, an optical paper read by Mr. Fresnel; who,
though he appears to have rediscovered, by his own efforts, the laws
of the interference of light, and though he has applied them, by some
very refined calculations, to cases which I had almost despaired of
being able to explain by them, has, on all occasions, and particularly
in a very luminous statement of the theory, lately inserted in a
translation of Thomson’s Chemistry, acknowledged, with the most
scrupulous justice, and the most liberal candour, the indisputable
priority of my investigations. In the course of the same week, I was
invited to sit next to Mr. Champollion junior, while he was reading,
to the Academy of Belles Lettres, a Memoir on the Analysis of the
Inscription of Rosetta: he, also, had been partly anticipated in his
results by what had been done in this country: though I could not help
fancying, that he had not so completely forgiven the injury, as his
countryman Mr. Fresnel appeared to have done. But Mr. Fresnel is the
friend of Arago, and nothing more requires to be said of his character
and sentiments.

I must, however, at once beg to be understood, that I fully and
sincerely acquit Mr. Champollion of any intentions actually
dishonourable: and if I have hinted, that I have received an impression
of something like a want of liberality in his conduct, I have only
thrown out this intimation, as an apology for being obliged to plead
my own cause, and not as having any right to complain of his silence,
or as having any desire or occasion to profit by his indulgence: at
the same time I am far from wishing to renounce his friendship, or to
forego the pleasure and advantage of his future correspondence.

At the beginning of my Egyptian researches, I had accidentally received
a letter from Mr. Champollion, which accompanied a copy of his work on
the state of Egypt under the Pharaohs, sent as a present to the Royal
Society: and as he requested some particular information respecting
several parts of the enchorial inscription of Rosetta, which were
imperfectly represented in the engraved copies, I readily answered his
inquiries from a reference to the original monument in the British
Museum: and a short time afterwards I sent him a copy of my conjectural
translation of the inscriptions, as it was inserted in the Archaeologia.

Of Mr. Champollion’s _Egypte sous les Pharaons_, the two volumes,
that have hitherto appeared, relate only to the geography of ancient
Egypt, and especially to the determination of the old Egyptian names of
places, as compared with the Greek and the Arabic, by the assistance of
Coptic manuscripts, and other intermediate documents. The work exhibits
considerable research, and some ingenuity: the author had devoted his
life to one very extensive pursuit, and he proposed to illustrate
every part of his subject, by the most minute investigation of every
circumstance, that could be brought to bear upon it. The undertaking,
commenced on so large a scale, appears to have proceeded but slowly;
nor is it probable that the life of any man would be sufficient for its
complete execution.

With regard to the enchorial Inscription, Mr. Champollion appeared
to me to have done at that time but little. A few of the references,
that he made to it, seemed to depend entirely upon Mr. Akerblad’s
investigations, although, as I have formerly had occasion to remark, it
was _tacitly_ that he adopted Mr. Akerblad’s conclusions. I imagine,
however, that he even now retains some erroneous prepossessions, which
he had imbibed from Mr. Akerblad, although, very possibly, without
recollecting their exact origin; in particular respecting the adoption
of some Greek epithets, without translation, into the enchorial
inscription: this question, however, I trust is now set at rest, by
means of some later discoveries.

Mr. Champollion continued to reside at Grenoble, where he had some
employment in the public library, till the beginning of 1821. I had not
a convenient opportunity of sending him any of my later papers; and
it was not till after he had left Grenoble, that he read the Article
EGYPT of the Supplement of the Encyclopaedia, into which their contents
were condensed. He had been devoting himself, in the mean time, to
the uninterrupted study of the enchorial inscription, and he appears
to have discovered, before he came to Paris, the original identity of
these characters with the imperfect imitations of the more distinct
hieroglyphics. Whether he made this discovery before I had printed my
letters in the Museum Criticum, I have no means of ascertaining: I have
never asked him the question, nor is it of much consequence, either to
the world at large or to ourselves. It may not be strictly just, to
say, that a man has no right to claim any discovery as his own, till he
has printed and published it: but the rule is at least a very useful
one. It is always easy to publish such an account of a discovery, as to
establish the right of originality, without affording much facility to
the pursuits of a competitor: although it is generally true, that not
only honesty, but even liberality, is the best policy.

Passing by, however, what I had already done, by far the most important
to me was what I had not done, and there was enough of this to satisfy
me, that Mr. Champollion was at least capable of doing many things,
with respect to which his claim of actual priority might appear more
than doubtful.

He had found, in the first place, among the multitude of Egyptian
papyri, which he had taken the trouble to copy at length, with the
permission of their various possessors, one in particular, of which a
series of the chapters were pretty obviously numbered in the enchorial
character, the series extending, with a few interruptions, from 1
to 20. He had already applied this discovery to the illustration of
some parts of the pillar of Rosetta: and I have since derived at least
equal advantage from it, in the examination of the enchorial papyrus of
Casati.

He had also discovered a fragment of a pillar formerly in the
possession of the Duc de Choiseul, which exhibited the character for
a month, followed by several various groups, together with different
numbers, evidently indicative of days; so that to the names of the
three months, which I had discovered, he was enabled to add at least
four more, though without completely ascertaining to which of the
months these new symbols belonged.

Mr. Champollion had ascertained, in the third place, the analogy of one
of the manuscripts, purchased of Casati, to the enchorial inscription
of Rosetta, and he had obtained from it, without difficulty, the mode
of writing the name Cleopatra in that character. He did not, however,
then mention to me the important consequences which he had derived from
this discovery; these, it seems, were the subject of a short paper read
to the Academy the succeeding Friday; and it will be proper to extract
a more particular account of them, from his Letter to Mr. Dacier, since
printed; in which I did certainly expect to find the chronology of my
own researches a little mere distinctly stated.

“The hieroglyphical text of the inscription of Rosetta,” he observes,
(p. 6), “exhibited, on account of its fractures, _only the name
of Ptolemy_. The obelisc found in the Isle of Philae, and lately
removed to London, contains also the hieroglyphical name of _one
of the Ptolemies_, expressed by the same characters that occur in
the inscription of Rosetta, surrounded by a ring or border, and it
is followed by a second border, which must necessarily contain the
proper name of a woman, and of a queen of the family of the Lagidae,
since this group is terminated by the hieroglyphics expressive of the
_feminine_ gender; characters which are found at the end of the names
of all the Egyptian goddesses without exception. The obelisc was fixed,
it is said, to a basis bearing a Greek inscription, which is a petition
of the priests of Isis at Philae, addressed to King Ptolemy, to
Cleopatra his sister, and to Cleopatra his wife. Now, if this obelisc,
and the hieroglyphical inscription engraved on it, were the result of
this petition, which in fact adverts to the consecration of a monument
of the kind, the border, with the feminine proper name, can only be
that of one of the Cleopatras. This name, and that of Ptolemy, which
in the Greek have several letters in common, were capable of being
employed for a comparison of the hieroglyphical characters composing
them; and if the similar characters in these names expressed in both
the same sounds, it followed that their nature must be entirely
phonetic.”

This course of investigation appears, indeed, to be so simple and so
natural, that the reader must naturally be inclined to forget that any
preliminary steps were required: and to take it for granted, either
that it had long been known and admitted, that the rings on the pillar
of Rosetta contained the name of Ptolemy, and that the semicircle and
the oval constituted the female termination, or that Mr. Champollion
himself had been the author of these discoveries.

It had, however, been one of the greatest difficulties attending the
translation of the hieroglyphics of Rosetta, to explain how the groups
within the rings, which varied considerably in different parts of
the pillar, and which occurred in several places where there was no
corresponding name in the Greek, while they were not to be found in
others where they ought to have appeared, could possibly represent the
name of Ptolemy; and it was not without considerable labour that I had
been able to overcome this difficulty. The interpretation of the female
termination had never, I believe, been suspected by any but myself: nor
had the name of a single god or goddess, out of more than five hundred
that I have collected, been clearly pointed out by any person.

But, however Mr. Champollion may have arrived at his conclusions,
I admit them, with the greatest pleasure and gratitude, not by
any means as superseding my system, but as fully confirming and
extending it. And here I am compelled to advert to a note of Mr.
Champollion’s, which I fear will be thought to go a little beyond
a _tacit adoption_ of my opinions, and to approach very near to an
unintentional misrepresentation. “It must, without doubt, (p. 15,)
have been by the form of this symbol, which has some resemblance to
the figure of a basket, that Dr. Young was led to recognise the name
of Berenice in the border that actually contains it. But he was of
opinion that the hieroglyphics constituting proper names were employed
as expressing whole syllables, that they were therefore a sort of
_rebuses_, and that the first character of the name of Berenice, for
example, represented the syllable BIR, which means a _basket_ in
the Egyptian language. This mistaken supposition has vitiated, in
great measure, the phonetic analysis which he has attempted of the
names of _Ptolemy_ and _Berenice_, in which, notwithstanding, he has
recognised the phonetic values of four of the characters: these are
the P, one of the forms of the T, one of the forms of the M, and the
I; but the whole of his syllabic alphabet, established from these two
names only, was completely inapplicable to the great number of proper
names phonetically expressed on the various monuments of Egypt ...
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Supplement, IV. Pt. i. Edinb. Dec. 1819.”

Now, if Mr. Champollion had attended to my expressions, he must have
perceived that it was _not_ by any _resemblance_ of an imaginary nature
that I was “led to recognise the name of Berenice;” but by external
evidence only. “The appellation SOTERES,” I have observed, Art. 57,
“as a dual, is well marked in the inscription of Rosetta, and the
character, thus determined, explains a long name in the temple at
Edfou ... 58. The wife of Ptolemy Soter, and mother of Philadelphus,
was BERENICE, whose name is found on a ceiling at KARNAK, in the
phrase, “Ptolemy and ... Berenice, the _saviour gods_.” In this name we
appear to have another specimen of syllabic _and alphabetical_ writing
combined, in a manner not extremely unlike the ludicrous mixtures of
words and things with which children are sometimes amused; for however
Warburton’s indignation might be excited by such a comparison, it
is perfectly true that, occasionally, “the sublime differs from the
ridiculous by a single step only.” ... I have then proceeded to state,
as conjectural _inferences_, the syllabic analogies: but instead of
_four_ letters which Mr. Champollion is pleased to allow me, I have
marked, in a subsequent chapter of this Essay, _nine_, which I have
actually specified in different parts of my paper in the Supplement:
and to these he has certainly added _three_ new ones; or _four_, if he
chooses to reckon the E as a fourth. I allow that I suspected the B,
the L, and the S, to be sometimes used syllabically: but the analogy
of these characters with the enchorial alphabet was so well marked,
that my attempt to refine upon it could not easily have embarrassed
any one in making the application. Mr. Champollion has never been led,
in any one instance, from the Egyptian name of an object, to infer
the phonetic interpretation, that is, the alphabetical power of its
symbol: but the letters having once been ascertained, he has ransacked
his memory or his dictionary for some name that he thought capable
of being applied to the symbol: and not always, as it appears to me,
in the most natural manner: I should prefer, for instance, the word
HRERI, a flower, as making the R, to the name of pomegranate, which,
it seems, was sometimes called ROMAN or ERMAN. I must also observe
that my intention, in placing the Coptic names in my vocabulary of
hieroglyphics, was to assist in tracing any such analogies that
might suggest themselves: and in the instance of AM or EM, N. 123,
the reading approaches very near to one of the letters, added by Mr.
Champollion to my alphabet.

With respect to the diversity of characters representing the same
letter, it will be observed that I have marked _three_ forms of the
M, _three_ of the N, with a fourth that was suggested to me by Mr.
Bankes, _two_ of the P or PH, and _two_ of the S. Of these last, I
cannot omit to observe, that Mr. Champollion has devoted at least a
page of his letter (p. 13, 14) to the demonstration of the identity
of _these same_ forms: and that it would not have been unnatural to
refer, in a single line of that page, to the assertion of the same
identity, which I had made in the article EGYPT, No. 102. “The bent
line is often exchanged in the manuscripts for the divided staff, and
both are represented in the running hand by a figure like a 9 or a 4.”
The remainder of the forms, assigned to the letters, are all due to Mr.
Champollion’s ingenious and successful investigations.

It so happens, that in the lithographical sketch of the obelisc of
Philae, which had been put into my hands by its adventurous and
liberal possessor, the artist has expressed the first letter of the
name of Cleopatra by a T instead of a K, and as I had not leisure
at the time to enter into a very minute comparison of the name with
other authorities, I suffered myself to be discouraged with respect to
the application of my alphabet to its analysis, and contented myself
with observing, that if the steps of the formation of an alphabet
were not exactly such as I had pointed out, they must at least have
been very nearly of the same nature. In return, I was complimented
for my candour, while I ought, perhaps, to have been reproved for
my timidity. If, however, I may judge from my late correspondence
with Mr. Champollion, he does not appear to be altogether so averse
to the admission of syllabic characters on some occasions, as his
note upon my “false point of departure” appears to imply: and I think
he will find, in the evidence now first made public, respecting the
enchorial character, some additional grounds for enforcing the opinion.
I shall insert a specimen of one variety of each of the names which
he has succeeded in deciphering: observing only, that his alphabet
could scarcely have agreed so well with the various combinations
of these names, as it appears to do, if it had not been in great
measure correct: and that I also fully agree with Mr. Champollion in
his interpretation of the phrase of the Pamfilian obelisc, which he
translates, WHO HAS RECEIVED THE KINGDOM FROM VESPASIAN HIS FATHER:
the same phrase occurring on the pillar of Rosetta, as well as on
the obelisc of Philae, where it had served to correct my later
opinion respecting the symbol for FATHER. It is here evident that the
expression cannot relate, as Mr. St. Martin imagines it must have done
in the inscriptions of Rosetta, to the immediate installation of a son
by _the hands_ of his father; but that the right of inheritance only
was implied by it. I am not however convinced, by the coherence of
this passage, that the greater part of the obelisc was ever intended
by the sculptor to convey a connected meaning; and at any rate the
explanation confirms the opinion, that I had expressed, respecting the
Roman origin of the workmanship. There are a few of the busts, now
placed in the magical gallery of the Vatican, which appeared to me, on
the contrary, to have been brought from Egypt with their genuine and
ancient inscriptions, and to have had their features newly formed, and
more highly polished, by Roman artists of the age of Adrian, in whose
villa at Tivoli they were principally found.

Mr. Champollion has lately had the goodness to communicate to me, by
letter, some suggestions, which, I conclude, he is on the point of
making public, and I therefore take the liberty of mentioning them,
as far as I think them at all admissible, though, perhaps, a little
prematurely. He is disposed to refer the name, which I consider
as that of the father of Amasis, to SESOSTRIS, as synonymous with
RAMESSES, which he thinks the characters are probably intended to
express phonetically. Now I readily allow, that where this name
is written fully and accurately, as it is repeatedly found in Mr.
Bankes’s great catalogue of Abydos, it may without much violence be
read nearly as Mr. Champollion proposes, “the approved by Phthah,
Ramesses,” or “the counterpart of Phthah, Ramesses;” the first part
of the group undergoing several synonymous variations, while the end
remains unchanged; although, if this reading were established, I
should refer the first name to Amenophis or MEMNON, who was the son
of Ramesses, or of Armesses called Miamun; and to whom the tomb of my
Amasis is said to be attributed in the Greek and Latin inscriptions
which are found in it; who is also said to have built the palace of
Abydos, on which my Amasis evidently appears as the founder; who is
more easily understood than Amasis to be prior to the Psammetichus
mentioned at Ebsambul; and, who is more likely than Amasis to have been
at Berýtus, or Nahr el Kelb, where Mr. Wyse, as I am informed by Sir
William Gell, has distinctly observed this name, accompanied by the
nail-headed characters. All these reasons are more than sufficient to
counterbalance the single assertion of Pliny; and we should be obliged
to change my Psammis, according to his place in Mr. Bankes’s table of
kings, into the Armais of Manetho; though the _vocal_ Memnon of the
numerous inscriptions would be converted by this comparison into Queen
Rathotis, or we should be obliged to leave out three of Manetho’s
list, to bring him up to the Amenophis who is called the Trojan Memnon
by that author. All this is, indeed, a little alluring, and several
suppositions might be introduced to overcome the difficulties: but
unfortunately the fundamental supposition appears to be liable to
an insurmountable objection; that the circle, which Mr. Champollion
considers as equivalent to the RE or RA of Ramesses, is also the first
character of each of the seventeen names immediately preceding it, and
indeed of every other in the catalogue, that remains unmutilated at the
beginning.

I am therefore sorry to say that I cannot hitherto congratulate Mr.
Champollion on the success of his attempts to carry his system of
phonetic characters into the very remotest antiquity of Egypt: he
appears, however, to have a better prospect of elucidating some of the
Persian names, having, as he informs me, been able to identify that of
XERXES, both in the hieroglyphics, and in the nail-headed characters,
by means of a vase of alabaster, on which both are found together. This
is, indeed, a wonderful opening for literary enterprise; and I am even
inclined to hope, from Mr. Champollion’s latest communications, that he
will find some means of overcoming the difficulties that I have stated
respecting the Pharaohs, for he assures me, that he has identified the
names of no less than THIRTY of them, and that they accord with the
traditions of Manetho, and, as far as he can judge, with the notes
that I had sent him of an attempt that I had formerly made to assign
temporary names to the kings enumerated at Abydos, in which those of
all the later ones began with the syllable RE. He will easily believe
that I wish for a satisfactory answer to my own objections: and, in
fact, the further that he advances by the exertion of his own talents
and ingenuity, the more easily he will be able to admit, without any
exorbitant sacrifice of his fame, the claim that I have advanced to a
priority with respect to the first elements of all his researches; and
I cannot help thinking that he will ultimately feel it most for his own
substantial honour and reputation, to be more anxious to admit the just
claims of others than they can be to advance them.




CHAPTER V.

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE MANUSCRIPTS BROUGHT FROM EGYPT BY MR. GREY.


I am impatient to turn, from every thing of a polemical or personal
nature, to a field that has hitherto been exclusively in my own
possession, in consequence of an event, which is the most important,
considered as a single occurrence, that has taken place since the
commencement of my Egyptian researches. It was very soon after my
return from France, that George Francis Grey, Esq. of University
College, Oxford, having been at Naples upon his return from Egypt,
was so good as to bring me a few lines from my old friend Sir William
Gell, himself a very successful traveller, and who has always pursued
with ardour the last vestiges of the interesting remains of antiquity,
both by his personal exertions, and by assisting and directing the
enterprises of others.

Mr. Grey had the kindness, on the 22d of November last, to leave
with me a box, containing several fine specimens of writing and
drawing on papyrus; they were chiefly in hieroglyphics, and of a
mythological nature: but the two which he had before described to me,
as particularly deserving attention, and which were brought, through
his judicious precautions, in excellent preservation, both contained
some Greek characters, written apparently in a pretty legible hand.
He had purchased them of an Arab at Thebes, in January 1820; and that
which was most intelligible had appeared, at first sight, to contain
some words relating to the service of the Christian church. Mr. Grey
was so good as to give me leave to make any use of these manuscripts
that I pleased; and he readily consented to their insertion among the
lithographic copies of the “Hieroglyphics, collected by the Egyptian
Society,” which I had undertaken to superintend from time to time, in
great measure for the private use of an association of my own friends,
not sufficiently numerous to insure any permanent stability to its
continuance.

Mr. Champollion had done me the favour, while I was at Paris, to copy
for me some parts of the very important papyrus, which I have before
mentioned as having given him the name of Cleopatra; and of which the
discovery was certainly a great event in Egyptian literature, since it
was the first time that any intelligible characters, of the enchorial
form, had been discovered among the many manuscripts and inscriptions
that had been examined, and since it furnished Mr. Champollion at the
same time with a name, which materially advanced, if I understood him
rightly, the steps that have led him to his very important extension of
the hieroglyphical alphabet. He had mentioned to me, in conversation,
the names of Apollonius, “Antiochus,” and Antigonus, as occurring
among the witnesses; and I easily recognised the groups which he had
deciphered: although, instead of _Antiochus_, I read _Antimachus_; and
I did not recollect at the time that he had omitted the M.

In the evening of the day that Mr. Grey had brought me his manuscripts,
I proceeded impatiently to examine that which was in Greek only: and I
could scarcely believe that I was awake, and in my sober senses, when
I observed, among the names of the witnesses, ANTIMACHUS ANTIGENIS:
and, a few lines further back, PORTIS APOLLONII; although the last word
could not have been very easily deciphered, without the assistance of
the conjecture, which immediately occurred to me, that this manuscript
might perhaps be a translation of the enchorial manuscript of Casati:
I found that its beginning was, “A copy of an Egyptian writing ...;”
and I proceeded to ascertain, that there were the same number of names,
intervening between the Greek, and the Egyptian signatures, that I had
identified, and that the same number followed the last of them; and
the whole number of witnesses appeared to be sixteen in each. The last
paragraph in the Greek began with the words, “Copy of the Registry;”
for such must be the signification of the word ΠΤΩΜΑΤΟΣ, employed in
this papyrus, though it does not appear to occur any where else in a
similar signification. I could not, therefore, but conclude, that a
most extraordinary chance had brought into my possession a document
which was not very likely, in the first place, ever to have existed,
still less to have been preserved uninjured, for my information,
through a period of near two thousand years: but that this very
extraordinary translation should have been brought safely to Europe,
to England, and to me, at the very moment when it was most of all
desirable to me to possess it, as the illustration of an original which
I was then studying, but without any other reasonable hope of being
able fully to comprehend it; this combination would, in other times,
have been considered as affording ample evidence of my having become an
Egyptian sorcerer.

Mr. Champollion had not thought it worth while to give me a transcript
of the original Greek endorsement: he seemed to consider it as not
fully agreeing with the Egyptian text, or, at any rate, as not
materially assisting in its interpretation: perhaps, also, he thought
it best for me to try my strength upon the original, without any little
assistance that might have been derived from it with respect to two
or three of the names: or, as I am more disposed to believe, he was
fearful of offending some of his countrymen, by making too public
what he had no right to communicate without their leave: for after an
accidental delay of a month, the answer that I received from Paris was
only such as to enable me to state, that my opinion of the identity
of the two endorsements is fully confirmed. I have lost, however, no
time in sending to the Conservators of the King’s cabinet a copy of
my registry; with a request to be favoured with theirs in return, in
order that I might have the same advantage from the comparison, which
I voluntarily afforded the Parisian critics, without any reserve or
delay; and in order that the duplicates may stand side by side in the
lithographical copy, which has only waited for their answer, to have
a vacant space filled up, and to be sent to them entire. In the mean
time, I have only to wish, that the philologists of Paris may do as
ample justice to these papyri, as one of the most distinguished of
their number, Mr. Letronne, has lately done to the inscriptions of the
Oasis, of which I had made a very hasty translation from a single copy
only, not having had the means of comparing it properly with the second.

My application for the copy of the Registry has been received with
the liberality which was to be expected from the directors of a great
institution, and I have to return my best thanks to Mr. Raoul Rochette,
for a correct copy of the whole of this highly important manuscript,
which I am happy to find that it is his intention to publish in a
short time. I am most anxious to avoid anticipating him, in the
gratification of the public curiosity, with regard to this interesting
relic: but as I find that some account of the Registry has already been
made public by Mr. St. Martin, I conceive myself at liberty to make
use, at least, of this part of the manuscript: and I do not imagine
that Mr. Raoul Rochette means to employ himself on the enchorial
conveyance.

The contents of Mr. Grey’s Greek manuscript are of a nature scarcely
less remarkable than its preservation and discovery: it relates to the
sale, not of a house or a field, but of a portion of the Collections
and Offerings made from time to time on account, or for the benefit, of
a certain number of MUMMIES, of persons described at length, in very
bad Greek, with their children and all their households. The price is
not very clearly expressed; but as the portion sold is only a moiety of
a third part of the whole, and as the testimony of sixteen witnesses
was thought necessary on the occasion, it is probable that the revenue,
thus obtained by the priests, was by no means inconsiderable.

The result, derived at once from this comparison, is the identification
of more than thirty proper names as they were written in the running
hand of the country. It might appear, upon a superficial consideration,
that a mere catalogue of proper names would be of little comparative
value in assisting us to recover the lost elements of a language. But,
in fact, they possess a considerable advantage, in the early stages
of such an investigation, from the greater facility and certainty
with which they are identified, and from their independence of any
grammatical inflexions, at least in the present case; by means of which
they lead us immediately to a full understanding of the orthographical
system of the language, where any such system can be traced.

The general inference, to be derived from an examination of the names
now discovered, is somewhat more in favour of an extensive employment
of an alphabetical mode of writing, than any that could have been
deduced from the pillar of Rosetta, which exhibits, indeed, only
foreign names, and affords us therefore little or no information
respecting the mode of writing the original Egyptian names of the
inhabitants. Several of the words, which occur in these documents, and
more especially in those which are hereafter to be mentioned, might be
read pretty correctly, by means of the alphabet originally made out
by Mr. Akerblad from the foreign names of the enchorial inscription;
but there are many more which appear to be rather syllabically than
alphabetically constituted: and the names of the different deities
seem to be very commonly employed in writing them; for instance, those
of Horus, Ammon, and Isis; and perhaps in the same way that they
are often composed, in the mythological manuscripts, found with the
mummies: in which, for want of the occurrence of a ring or border,
or of the corresponding enchorial marks, I had concluded that the
groups could not be intended to represent the ordinary names of the
individuals. But these marks are, in fact, by no means constantly
employed in the enchorial papyri; and they seem only to have been
inserted when either great precision, or some distinguished mark of
respect was required.

Important, however, as are the additions that are likely to be made
to our knowledge by means of this “Antigraph”, it is by no means the
only valuable acquisition for which we are indebted to the enterprise
and the diligence of Mr. Grey: a second papyrus, of considerably
greater magnitude, contains three Egyptian conveyances in the enchorial
character, with separate registries on the margin, in very legible
Greek. These are not only of use for the illustration of other similar
documents, but they afford us also many additional examples of
enchorial proper names, besides a general idea of the subjects of the
respective manuscripts, all of which relate to the sale of lands in the
neighbourhood of Thebes. It will be most convenient to consider them as
parts of a series, of which those are the first to be examined, that
are the most capable of affording an independent testimony; beginning
with the Greek papyrus in the possession of Mr. Anastasy, the Swedish
consul at Alexandria, and proceeding to the Antigraph and its original,
and thence to the three enchorial manuscripts, which are also the
property of Mr. Grey. It is scarcely conceivable, by a person who has
not made the experiment; how much the difficulty of reading a depraved
character is almost universally diminished by the comparison of two
or three copies of the same or of similar passages; the words, which
would be wholly unintelligible in either taken singly, being often very
easily legible when both are at once under the eye; and, still more
commonly, a word which is confused or contracted in one, being written
clearly or at length in another.

It is in this manner, that several of the deficiencies of the
manuscript of Anastasy, as edited by the learned and ingenious
Professor Böckh of Berlin, have been in some measure supplied, in
the late republication at Paris, by the care of Mr. Jomard, from a
comparison with the Greek manuscripts purchased of Mr. Casati, in order
to be added to the unrivalled treasures of literature contained in the
King’s library and cabinet. Several more of the obscurities of this
manuscript, if not the whole, I flatter myself are now removed, by the
further comparison, which I have attempted to make, by means of Mr.
Grey’s indulgence in allowing me the use of his manuscripts; and by
means of the duplicate which I have received from Paris in exchange
for the registry of his Antigraph.

The manuscript of Anastasy, besides its curiosity as a subject of
antiquarian and historical research, becomes of great importance,
in this inquiry, as affording a more complete specimen, than the
Antigraph, of the usual form of a contract in Egypt under the
Ptolemies; and as assisting in the investigation of the sense of
the preamble of the enchorial manuscript, which is omitted in the
Antigraph. I shall therefore insert here a translation of this
document, and shall reprint the original in an appendix, with such
corrections as I have thought it appeared to require; in order to
restore it to the form intended by the writer. The registries, in their
original language, I shall print side by side, and in the order of time
which I attribute to them.


TRANSLATION OF THE GREEK PAPYRUS OF ANASTASY.

_See Appendix_ I.

(1) In the reign of Cleopatra and Ptolemy her son surnamed Alexander,
the Gods Philometores Soteres, in the year XII, otherwise IX; in the
priesthood of the existing priests (2) in Alexandria, [the priest]
of Alexander and of the Gods Soteres, and of the Gods Adelphi, and
of the Gods Evergetae, and of the Gods Philopatores, and of the Gods
Epiphanes, and of the God (3) Philometor, and of the God Eupator, and
of the Gods Evergetae: the Prize bearer of Berenice Evergetis, the
Basket bearer of Arsinoe Philadelphus and the priestess of Arsinoe
(4) Eupator at present in Alexandria: and, in the Thebaic Ptolemais,
in the priesthood of the existing priests and priestesses of Ptolemy
Soter, [and of ...] (5) in Ptolemais; on the 29th of the month Tybi
[v; February]: Apollonius being President of the Exchange of the
Memnonians, and of the lower government of the Pathyritic nome.

(6) There was sold by Pamonthes, aged about 45, of middle size, dark
complexion, and handsome figure, bald, round faced, and straight
nosed; and by Snachomneus, aged about 20, of middle size, sallow
complexion, (7) likewise round faced and straight nosed; and by
Semmuthis Persineï, aged about 22, of middle size, sallow complexion,
round faced, flat nosed, and of quiet demeanour; and by Tathlyt (8)
Persineï, aged about 30, of middle size, sallow complexion, round face,
and straight nose, with their principal Pamonthes, a party in the sale;
the four (9) being of the children of Petepsais of the leather cutters
of the Memnonia; out of the piece of level ground which belongs to
them in the southern part of the Memnonia, (10) eight thousand cubits
of open field, one fourth [of the whole?] bounded on the south by
the Royal Street; on the north and east by the land of Pamonthes and
Boconsiemis, who is his brother, (11) and the common land [or wall] of
the city; on the west by the house of Tages the son of Chalome: a canal
running through, the middle, leading from the river: these are the
neighbours on all sides. It was bought by Nechutes the less, (12) the
son of Asos, aged about 40, of middle size, sallow complexion, cheerful
countenance, long face, and straight nose, with a scar upon the middle
of his forehead; for 601 pieces of brass: the sellers standing as
(13) brokers, and as securities for the validity of the sale. It was
accepted by Nechutes the purchaser.

                                                    APOLLONIUS Pr. Exch?


[REGISTRY.]

In the year XII, otherwise IX; the 20th of Pharmuthi [VIII; May],
[transacted] at the table in Hermopolis, at which Dionysius presides,
over the 20th department; in the account of the partners receiving the
duties on sales, of which Heraclides is the subscribing clerk, the
acceptor in the sale is Nechutes the less, the son of Asos; an open
field of eight thousand cubits, one fourth portion; in the southern
part of the Memnonia: which he bought of Pamonthes and Snachomneus, the
sons of Petepsais, with their sisters: 601 pieces? The end....

                                                   Dionysius subscribes.


The beginning of this preamble may be illustrated by that of the
inscription of ROSETTA, which runs nearly thus:

In the reign of the young king ... Ptolemy Epiphanes the munificent
... the son of Ptolemy and Arsinoe, the gods Philopatores ... in the
year IX; the priest of Alexander and of the gods Soteres, and of the
gods Adelphi, and of the gods Evergetae, and of the gods Philopatores,
and of the god Epiphanes the munificent being Aëtus, the son of Aëtus:
the prize bearer of Berenice Evergetis being Pyrrha the daughter
of Philinus: the basket bearer of Arsinoe Philadelphus being Areia
daughter of Diogenes; and the priestess of Arsinoe Philopator, Irene
the daughter of Ptolemy: on the 4th day of Xanthicus, or the 18th of
Mechir: it was decreed....

In comparing the preamble of the deed of sale with this monument,
we have first to observe the successive addition of the names of
Philometor, Eupator, and the Evergetae, to the titles of the priests
of Alexander and his successors. Eupator, it seems, according to other
authorities, cited by Böckh, was Ptolemy Evergetes II, the successor
of Philometor, called also Cacergetes and Physcon; and the Evergetae,
named after him, can only have been the reigning sovereigns, before
called Philometores Soteres: and Cleopatra, at least, had some right to
the name Evergetis, as having derived it from her husband, so that she
may easily be supposed to have shared it occasionally with her son. The
remaining part of the preamble varies but little, except that Arsinoe,
instead of Philopator, is called Eupator: but this diversity is not
more material than the substitution of Adelphi for Philadelphi, which
frequently occurs. The double date is well known to have been adopted
by Cleopatra and Alexander, and its origin is sufficiently explained
by Eusebius and Porphyry. Professor Böckh makes the year, 104 B. C.;
but from a comparison of different authorities it seems rather more
probable that it was 106 B. C., at least so I have been obliged to
arrange it in a table, formed from a comparison of the chronologies of
Porphyry, Champollion Figeac, and St. Martin, which I have inserted in
an Appendix.


TRANSLATION OF MR. GREY’S GREEK ANTIGRAPH.

(1) _Copy of an Egyptian Writing respecting the Dead Bodies in Thyn.
having been_ (2) _ratif_....

(3) In the XXXVIth year; Athyr [III] 20, after the usual preamble,
this writing witnesses: that the ¿Dresser? (4) among the servants of
the great goddess [Isis?] Onnophris the son of Horus and of Senpoeris,
[aged about] forty, lively, tall, of a sallow complexion, hollow eyed,
(5) and bald, has ceded voluntarily for the price of ... to Horus the
son of Horus and of Senpoeris, (6) one moiety of the third part of
the Collection for the dead (7) lying in Thynabunun, on the Libyan
side of the Theban suburb, (8) in the Memnonia: likewise one moiety of
the third part of the Services or Liturgies (9) and so forth: their
names being | Muthes the son of Spotus, with (10) his children (10)
and all his household; Chapocrates the son of Nechthmonthes, with
his children and all; Arsiesis the son of Nechthmonthes; likewise
Petemestus the son of (11) Nechthmonthes; likewise Arsiesis the son of
Zminis; likewise (12) Osoroeris the son of [Horus]; likewise Spotus
the son of Chapochonsis; likewise (13) Zoglyphus: from which there
belongs to Asos the son of Horus and of Senpoeris (14) “thy” younger
brother, one of [or, the younger brother of] the same ¿Dressers? a
moiety of the (15) aforesaid third part of the services and fruits
and (16) so forth. He has sold it to him in the year XXXVI; 20 Athyr,
in the reign of the everlasting (17) king, for the completion of
the third part. Also a moiety of the fruits (18) ¿and so forth? of
the ¿other? dead bodies in Thy. that is to say, Pateutemis with his
children and (19) all; and a moiety of the fruits belonging to me from
the property of (20) Petechonsis the milk bearer, and from a place on
the Asiatic side, called (21) Phrecages, with the dead bodies in it;
of which a moiety belongs to the (22) same Asos: all these things I
have sold to him. They are thine, (23) and I have received their price
from thee, and I make no demand upon thee (24) for them from this
day: and if any person disturb thee (25) in the possession of them, I
will withstand the attempt, and if I do not [otherwise] repel it (26)
I will use compulsory means. Written by Horus the son of Phabis, the
writer of the (27) [priests] of Amonrasonther, and the other gods of
the temple. (28) Witnesses: Erieus the son of Phanres. Peteartres the
son of Pateutemis. (29) Petearpocrates the son of [Horus]. Snachomneus
the son of Peteuris. Snachomes (30) the son of Psenchonsis. Totoes the
son of Phibis. Portis the son of APOLLONIUS. Zminis (31) the son of
Petemestus. Peteutemis the son of Arsiesis. Amonorytius (32) the son
of Pacemis. Horus the son of Chimnaraus. Armenis the son of Zthenaetis
(33). Maësis the son of Mirsis. ANTIMACHUS the son of ANTIGENES.
Petophois the son of Phibis. (34) Panas the son of Petosiris. Witnesses
16.

Copy of the Registry. In the year XXXVI; the ninth of Choeak [IV].
Transacted at the table in Diospolis, at which Lysimachus is the
President of the 20th department; in the account of Asclepiades
and Zminis, farmers of the tax, in which the subscribing clerk is
Ptolemaeus: the purchaser Horus the son of Horus the ¿Dresser? a part
of the sum, collected by them, on account of the dead bodies lying in
Thynabunun, in the Memnonian tombs of the Libyan suburb of Thebes, for
the services which are performed. Bought of Onnophris the son of Horus,
Pieces of brass 400 . Z . . The end.

                                                   Lysimach. subscribes.


TRANSLATION OF THE ENCHORIAL PAPYRUS OF PARIS, CONTAINING THE ORIGINAL
DEED RELATING TO THE MUMMIES.

(1) This writing, dated in the year XXXVI; Athyr 20, in the reign
of our Sovereigns Ptolemy and Cleopatra his sister, the children of
Ptolemy and Cleopatra, the divine, (2) the Gods Illustrious: and the
Priest of Alexander, and of the Saviour Gods, of the Brother Gods, of
the [Beneficent Gods], of the Father loving Gods, of the Illustrious
Gods, of the Paternal God, and (3) of the Mother loving Gods being [as
by law appointed]: and the Prize bearer of Berenice the Beneficent,
and the Basket bearer of Arsinoe the Brother loving, and the Priestess
of (4) Arsinoe the Father loving, being as appointed in the metropolis
[of Alexandria]; and in [Ptolemaïs] the Royal City ¿of the Thebaid? the
Guardian Priest ¿for the year? of Ptolemy Soter, and the Priest of King
Ptolemy the Father loving, (5) and the Priest of Ptolemy the Brother
loving, and the Priest of Ptolemy the Beneficent, and the Priest of
Ptolemy the Mother loving; and the Priestess of Queen Cleopatra,
and the Priestess (6) of the Princess Cleopatra, and the Priestess
of Cleopatra the [Queen] Mother, deceased, the Illustrious; and the
Basket bearer of Arsinoe the Brother loving, [being as appointed]:
declares: The ¿Dresser? in the temple (7) of the Goddess, Onnophris
the son of Horus, and of Senpoeris ¿daughter of Spotus? [“aged about
forty, lively”], tall, [“of a sallow complexion, hollow eyed, and
bald”]: in the temple of the goddess (8) to [Horus] ¿his brother? the
son of Horus and of Senpoeris, has sold, for a price in money, half
of one third of the Collections for the dead, “Priests of Osiris?”
lying (9) in Thynabunun ... in the Libyan suburb of Thebes, in the
Memnonia ... likewise half of one third of the Liturgies: their names
being, Muthes the son of Spotus, with his children and his household;
Chapocrates (10) the son of Nechthmonthes, with his children and his
household; Arsiesis the son of Nechthmonthes, with his children and
his household; Petemestus the son of Nechthmonthes, Arsiesis the son
of Zminis, with his children and his household; Osoroeris (11) the
son of Horus, with his children and his household; Spotus the son of
Chapochonsis ¿surnamed? Zoglyphus [the Sculptor,] with his children
and his household: while there belonged also to Asos the son of Horus
and of Senpoeris ¿daughter of Spotus? (12) in the same manner one half
of a third of the collections for the dead, and of the fruits and
so forth ...: he sold it on the 20th of Athyr, in the reign of the
king everliving, to [complete] the third part: likewise the half ¿of
one third? of the collections relating to (13) Peteutemis, with his
household and ...: likewise the half ¿of one third? of the collections
and fruits for Petechonsis the bearer of milk, and of the ... place
on the Asian side called Phrecages (14), and ... and the dead bodies
in it: there having belonged to Asos the son of Horus one half of the
same: he has sold to him in the month of ... the half of one third of
the collections (15) for the Priests ¿of Osiris? lying in Thynabunun,
with their children and their households: likewise the half of one
third of the collections for Peteutemis, and also for (16) Petechonsis
the bearer of milk, in the place Phrecages on the Asian side: I have
received for them their price in silver: ... and gold: ... and I make
no further demand on thee for them from the present day, ... (17) ...
before the authorities ... [and if any one shall disturb thee in the
possession of them, I will resist him, and if I do not succeed, I will
indemnify thee?] ... (18) Executed and confirmed: Written by Horus the
son of Phabis, clerk to the chief priests of Amonrasonther and of the
¿contemplar? Gods, of the Beneficent Gods, of the Father loving Gods,
of the Paternal God, and of the (19) Mother loving Gods. Amen. (20)
Names of the witnesses present....

[_Column at the edge of the paper._] (1) Names of the authorities.
(2) Erieus the son of Phanres ¿Erieus? (3) Peteartres the son of
Peteutemis. (4) Petearpocrates the son of Horus. (5) Snachomneus the
son of Peteuris. (6) Snachomes the son of Psenchonsis. (7) Totoes the
son of Phibis. (8) Portis the son of APOLLONIUS. (9) Zminis the son of
Petemestus. (10) Peteutemis the son of Arsiesis. (11) Amonorytius the
son of Pacemis. (12) Horus the son of Chimnaraus. (13) Armenia [rather
Arbais,] the son of Zthenaetis. (14) Maesis the son of Mirsis. (15)
ANTIMACHUS the son of ANTIGENES. (16) Petophois the son of Phibis. (17)
Panas the son of Petosiris. (18) Were present [as witnesses.]

The additions to the Sovereigns, named in the preamble of the stone
of Rosetta, are here the Paternal God and the Mother loving Gods, or
Eupator and the Philometores, and we want only the Evergetae of the
papyrus of Anastasy. We can, therefore, only refer the date to one of
the two preceding reigns, of Philometor or Evergetes Eupator, which
it is very difficult to distinguish from each other with precision.
We have, however, no evidence that Philometor’s dates extended beyond
35, and we must naturally consider this 36 as belonging to Eupator,
corresponding to 135 B. C. which was 11 years after the death of
Philometor. If we judged from this manuscript alone, we should infer
that Eupator was canonized, by some accident, during his temporary
reign, before his brother, and that the order of the names remained
undisturbed through the different changes of their governments. The
epithet “Illustrious” in this preamble is not easily recognised; but
it is distinguished by the termination from “Beneficent,” for which
I had in the first instance mistaken it: an epithet so placed is
almost always referred to the person last mentioned. The enchorial
name of the divinity here called Amonrasonther considerably resembles
that of the “Cerexochus” of the Article Egypt. The epithet, which I
have conjecturally translated “Dresser”, was at first supposed to
mean Brazier, and was read Chalchytes: but the Parisian Registry has
distinctly Cholchytes: which may possibly be a derivative of DCHOLH or
JOLH, to dress, to put on, and may have been applied to some of the
Hierostolists, or Tire men, of the temple.


TRANSLATION OF MR. GREY’S ENCHORIAL PAPYRUS. REGISTRY IN GREEK (A).

In the year XXVIII; the 28 Mesore [XII]. Transacted at the table in
Hermopolis, at which Dio.[nysius] is President of the 20th department,
in the Account of Asclepiades [contractor for the tax] on sales; of
which Ptolemaeus is the subscribing clerk: the purchaser being Teephbis
the son of Amenothes ¿for 300 pieces of brass? ¿of 7000? cubits, at
the southern end of the whole open field, which is at the south of
Diospolis the Great; of which the boundaries are given in the annexed
agreement: which he bought of Alecis and Lubais and Tbaeais the sons of
Erieus, and of Senerieus the daughter of Petenephotes, and Erieus the
son of Amenothes, and Senosorphibis the daughter of Amenothes, and of
Spois also ¿the son? of Erieus the son of Amenothes. In the XXVIIIth
year, Pachon [IX] 20. ¿Pieces? ... End of the record.

                                               Dionysius has subscribed.


ENCHORIAL AGREEMENT (A).

Year XXVIII; Month.... In the reign of Ptolemy and Cleopatra his
sister, the children of Ptolemy and Cleopatra, the Illustrious Gods:
and the Priest of Alexander, of the Saviour Gods, of the ¿Maternal?
[Brother] Gods, of the Beneficent Gods, of the Father loving Gods,
of the Illustrious Gods, of the Mother loving Gods: and the Prize
bearer of Berenice the Beneficent, and the Basket bearer of Arsinoe
the Brother loving, and the Priest of Arsinoe the Father loving, being
as appointed in the metropolis [of Alexandria; and in Ptolemais], the
Royal City ¿of the Thebaid? the Guardian Priest ¿for the year? of
Ptolemy Soter, and the Priest of Ptolemy the Mother loving, and the
Priest of Ptolemy the Brother loving, and the Priest of Ptolemy the
Beneficent, and the Priest of Ptolemy the Father loving, and the Priest
of Ptolemy the Illustrious and Munificent, and the Priest of Queen
Cleopatra, and the Priest of Cleopatra the Mother, the late Goddess
Illustrious; and the Basket bearer of Arsinoe the Brother loving, being
[all as by law appointed]: The brothers, Alecis the son of Erieus,
Lubais the son of Erieus, and Tbaeais the son of Erieus, their mother
being Senerieus the daughter of Petenephotes son of Lubais; Erieus the
son of Amenothes, and Senosorphibis daughter of Amenothes, whose mother
was Senamunis, and Spois the son of Erieus, the son of Amenothes, his
mother being ¿Senchonsis? coming into the temple of ¿Thebes? agreed
with Teephbis son of Amenothes, to sell for a sum of money ... α ... α
... α ... α ... of the city ... in the year and month and day [above
mentioned] of the King everliving ... α ... ¿Alecis Phaïne? ... α ...
(16) α ... Asos the son of Horus and of Senpoeris ... the Royal Street
(HIR = ῥύμη) ... ¿vineyard? ... α ... α ... (19) ... (20) ... place
... (21) given up ... month ... time ... (22) ... (23) ... (24) ...
Executed and confirmed. Written by Erieus the son of Phanres, clerk to
the chief Priests of Amonrasonther and the contemplar Gods ... Amen.


It is sufficiently obvious that this deed must belong to the same
period as the sale of the collections for the mummies, and that it must
consequently have been at least eight years earlier. The “God Eupator”
is here omitted, perhaps accidentally, or perhaps because he had not
been canonized at the time. The date 28 is equally applicable to the
reigns of Philometor and of Eupator: and several names occur in this
deed which are also found in the preceding: for example, Erieus the
son of Phanres, who is the first witness in that deed, is the clerk
that drew up the present. Asos the son of Horus and Senpoeris, who is
one of the “Dressers” of the temple, appears here as the possessor,
probably of a neighbouring piece of land, and in the next deed as a
purchaser. The question remains whether we should assign to this deed a
date 19 years earlier than the former, or only 8, that is, whether 154
B. C. or 143; and there appears to be no evidence at present existing
that is sufficient to decide it: except that the omission of the name
of Eupator was less likely to happen in his own reign than in his
predecessor’s. The priesthoods of Ptolemais are somewhat negligently
arranged at the end of this preamble, but they present no essential
discordances. The Registry affords us a remarkable instance of a double
contraction for the word ΠΟΛΙΣ or city, it is first represented by a
semicircle with a central point, 𝄐, and then by a figure of 2, in the
names of Hermopolis, and Diospolis, or Thebes. The contraction for
Hermopolis, in the papyrus of Anastasy, would not easily have been
explained without the aid of these manuscripts. The Dionysius of the
reign of Ptolemy Alexander, being near fifty years later, may perhaps
have been a son of this Dionysius, and may have succeeded him in his
office.


TRANSLATION OF THE SECOND DEED (B).

REGISTRY, IN GREEK.

In the year XXIX; Phamenoth [VII] 9. Transacted at the table in
Hermopolis, at which Dionysius is president of the 20th department;
in the account of Asclepiades and Crates [contractors for the duties]
on sales, of which Ptolemaeus is the subscribing clerk: Asus, the son
of Horus, purchaser of an open field of ¿2000? [square cubits], lying
in the southern part of Diospolis the Great; of which the boundaries
are given in the present agreement: which he bought of Alecis the son
of Erieus, and Lubais and Tbaeais the sons of Erieus, and Senerieus
the daughter of Petenephotes, and Erieus the son of Amenothes, and
Senosorphibis the daughter of Amenothes, and Spois [or Spoetus] also
the son of Erieus the son of Amenothes ... ¿Pieces ... 1004? The end....

                                             Diony[sius] has subscribed.


ENCHORIAL AGREEMENT (B).

Year XXIX. In the reign of Ptolemy and Cleopatra, the children of
Ptolemy and Cleopatra the Gods Illustrious and Munificent: living
for ever. The brothers, Alecis the son of Erieus, Lubais the son of
Erieus, and Tbaeais the son of Erieus, their mother being Senerieus the
daughter of Petenephotes, son of Lubais; Erieus the son of Amenothes,
and Senosorphibis daughter of Amenothes, her mother being Senamunis,
and ¿Spois? the son of Erieus, the son of Amenothes, his mother being
¿Senchonsis? coming into the temple of ¿Thebes? agreed with Asus the
son of Horus to sell for a sum of money ... α ... α ... α ... α ...
of the city ... in the year and month and day [above mentioned] of
the king everliving ... α ... ¿Phaine? ... α ... the Royal Street;
¿the sister of Alecis, Phaine? ... α ... α ... place ... has released
... months ... time.... Executed and confirmed. Written by Erieus the
son of Phanres, clerk to the chief priests of Amonrasonther and the
contemplar Gods.... Amen.

The preamble is here abridged, which was perhaps the safer, as the deed
stands by the side of the preceding on the same papyrus. The phrase “α”
is the same in both deeds, and probably means “a piece of open field
bounded by,” or something of a similar nature: for forms of this kind
appear to be repeated without limit in the old Egyptian language.


TRANSLATION OF THE THIRD DEED (C).

REGISTRY IN GREEK.

In the year XXXV; Pharmuthi [VIII] 20. Transacted at the table in
Diospolis the Great, at which Lysim[achus] [is president]; in the
account of Sarapion and his partners [contractors for the duties] on
sales, in which the subscribing clerks are Hermophilus and Sarapion:
the purchaser being Pechytes the son of Arsiesis; of the fourth part of
an open field of ¿3000 square cubits? in the southern part of Diospolis
the Great; on the western side of the canal of Her[cules], leading to
the river; of which the boundaries are given in the present agreement;
which he bought of Ammonius the son of Pyrrhius, and Psenamunis the son
of Pyrrhius. ¿Pieces 3000? The end. Of which ...

                                               Lysimach. has subscribed.


ENCHORIAL AGREEMENT (C).

¿XXXV? Month.... In the reign of Ptolemy and Cleopatra his sister,
the children of Ptolemy and Cleopatra the Gods Illustrious; and the
Priest of Alexander and of the Saviour Gods, of the Brother Gods, of
the Beneficent Gods, of the Father loving Gods, of the Illustrious
Gods, of the ¿hostile? Paternal God, and of the Mother loving Gods:
and the Prize bearer of Berenice the Beneficent, and the [Gold and
Silver] Basket bearer of Arsinoe the Brother loving, and the Priest of
Arsinoe the Father loving, being [as appointed in the metropolis]: the
bargain was made by the men of the family of Alecis: Ammonius the son
of Pyrrhius, and Psenamunis the son of Pyrrhius, coming into the temple
... agreed with Pechytes the son of Arsiesis and ¿Oenone? to sell for
a sum of money ...       ... (14) Royal Street ... month ... time
...      . Executed and confirmed. Written by ... clerk to the chief
priests of Amonrasonther and the contemplar Gods, the Gods ¿Beneficent?
the Father loving Gods and the Gods Illustrious, the ¿hostile? Paternal
God, and the Mother loving Gods. Amen.

The name of Eupator appears here to contain, in two different places,
the characters which in the Rosetta inscription denote hostile or
turbulent; and this circumstance would incline us to prefer the date of
the last year of the reign of Philometor: but it is possible that the
same epithets may have been intended to mean warlike, in a favourable
sense.

There remains a fourth enchorial manuscript, of some importance,
at present in the British Museum, but still belonging to Mr. Salt,
without whose permission it would be improper to make public its whole
contents, even if they were perfectly intelligible. But, in fact, the
preamble of this manuscript has been lost, and the registry is nearly
illegible, except that the date is clearly XLVII, and the signature of
the President at the table of Hermopolis appears to be Dionysius. The
names of Horus and Erieus and Arsiesis are also distinguishable in the
body of the deed, and the word “two thousand” is written at length, at
the end of the registry. Now the year 47 can only belong to the reign
of Philadelphus, or to that of Eupator, and the style of the registry
too much resembles that of all the other deeds, including Anastasy’s,
to allow us to assign it to the former reign: it must, therefore,
belong, not to 277, but to 124 B. C. This date will not indeed give
us any certain evidence respecting that of Mr. Grey’s deeds; though
it might rather incline us to take the later than the earlier, of two
periods, equally probable in other respects. On the whole, we can only
leave the alternative open for future decision between the dates, as
thus contrasted:

    Mr. Grey’s enchorial
      deed                       (A), XXVIII  154 or 143 B. C.
                                 (B), XXIX    153    142
                                 (C), XXXV    147    136
    Mr. Grey’s Greek Antigraph,
      or rather
      the enchorial deed
      of Paris                        XXXVI   146    135
    Mr. Salt’s enchorial
      deed                            XLVII          124
    Anastasy’s Greek conveyance       XII-IX         106.

The registry of Mr. Grey’s first deed is therefore at least 37, and,
on the whole, most probably 48 years more ancient, than any other
writing with a pen and ink that exists; and it still remains in the
most perfect preservation. Mr. Jomard has compared the manuscript of
Anastasy, for its importance, to the pillar of Rosetta: but it can in
no respect whatever be put in competition with the Antigraph of Mr.
Grey.

[Illustration: SPECIMEN OF MR. GREY’S ENCHORIAL PAPYRUS.]




CHAPTER VI.

EXTRACTS FROM DIODORUS AND HERODOTUS; RELATING TO MUMMIES.


It is rather as being illustrated by the discovery of Mr. Grey’s Greek
papyrus, than as contributing much to its illustration, that I shall
here introduce such passages of Diodorus Siculus and of Herodotus, as
tend to explain the customs of the Egyptians respecting the honours
shown to the dead bodies of their relations.

“The inhabitants of this country,” says Diodorus, Book I. § 51, Wess.,
in the language of Booth, p. 26, “little value the short time of this
present life; but put a high esteem upon the name and reputation
of a virtuous life after death; and they call the houses of the
living, _Inns_, because they stay in them but a little while; but the
sepulchres of the dead they call _Everlasting habitations_, because
they abide in the graves to infinite generations. Therefore they are
not very curious in the building of their houses; but in beautifying
their sepulchres they leave nothing undone that [the excess of
magnificence can suggest].”

§ 72. W. “What the Egyptians performed, after the deaths of every one
of their kings, clearly evidences the great love they bore to them. For
honour done to him that cannot possibly know it, in a grateful return
of a former benefit, carries along with it a testimony of sincerity,
without the least colour of dissimulation.” Booth, p. 37.

§ 73. W. The whole of Egypt being divided into a number of parts,
called Nomes by the Greeks, each of these is governed by a Nomarcha, to
whom the care of all its public concerns is entrusted. The land being
every where divided into three portions, the first is occupied by the
priesthood, who are held in the greatest respect by the inhabitants,
as being devoted to the worship of the gods, and as possessing the
greatest power of understanding, from the superiority of their
education: and from the revenues of these lands they perform all
sacrifices throughout Egypt, and support the servants of the temples
as well as their own families: for they hold that the administration
of the honours of the gods ought not to be fluctuating, but to be
conducted always by the same persons, and in the same manner: and that
those, who are above all their fellow citizens in wisdom and knowledge,
ought not to be below any of them in the comforts and conveniences of
life: and the priests are in the habit of associating very generally
with the kings, partly as counsellors, partly as assistants, and partly
as expounders and instructors: foretelling future events by means
of astronomy and of augury, and reading the most useful lessons from
the past, out of the records of their sacred volumes: for it is not
the custom, as in Greece, for one man, or one woman, to be appointed
to each priesthood, but there are many who are employed together in
the sacrifices and in other ceremonies; and these transmit the same
professional occupation to their descendants. The whole of the families
of the priests are exempt from taxes, and they come immediately after
the king in rank and authority. The second portion of the land is
retained in the power of the king for his own revenue, out of which
he has to provide for all military expenses, and for the support of
his own splendour and dignity, as well as for the liberal remuneration
of those who have distinguished themselves by their virtues and their
valour: so that being amply supplied from this territory, they are
not obliged to burden their subjects with oppressive taxes. The last
of the three portions is assigned to the military population, who are
subject to the duties attending on a state of warfare: in order that
those, who are exposed to danger in battle, may be the more ready to
undergo the hazards of the field, from the interest that they feel in
the country as occupiers of the soil: for it would be thought absurd to
commit the common safety to the care of those, who possessed nothing in
the country that was worthy of preservation: and this system had the
still greater advantage of acting as an encouragement to population,
in order that the country might not be in want of foreign auxiliaries:
and their descendants, in like manner, receiving the constitution
thus transmitted to them from their forefathers, are excited by
the emulation of the valiant deeds of their ancestors, and become
invincible by the courage and experience which they acquire.

§ 74. There are also three other classes that enter into the political
system of Egypt; those of the Shepherds, the Husbandmen, and the
Artisans. The husbandmen, occupying, at a low rent, the arable land
belonging to the king, and the priests, and the military, employ their
whole time in cultivating it: and being educated from their infancy
in agricultural pursuits, they are superior, from their experience,
to the husbandmen of other countries: for they are perfectly well
acquainted, partly from the knowledge derived from their ancestors, and
partly from their own observation, with the nature of the soil, and
its irrigation, and with the times and seasons for sowing and reaping,
and for collecting all kinds of fruits. The same advantages are
possessed by the shepherds, who receive the charge of the flocks from
their forefathers as by inheritance, and pass their whole lives in the
care of their cattle: and having derived much information from their
ancestors, respecting the best modes of treatment and fattening of
the different animals, they also add not a little from their own zeal
and industry in their occupations: and, what is most remarkable, from
their excessive refinement in these pursuits, the poulterers and geese
feeders, besides the natural modes of breeding birds, which are common
in other countries, have procured an infinite multitude of poultry by
their own ingenuity: for they do not hatch their eggs by the incubation
of the hens, but, by means of an artificial operation, derived from
their own talents and invention, they are enabled to rival, if not to
exceed, the activity of nature: and the arts in general are carried to
a very elaborate degree of perfection by the Egyptians; for in this
country no artist is allowed to meddle either with political affairs,
or with any other employment, besides that which he has received
from his parents, and to which he is confined by the law: so that
neither the jealousy of a master, nor any public business, can ever
divert him from the exclusive study of his profession: for in other
countries we often observe that an artist is diverted by a variety of
pursuits, and is too avaricious to confine himself to his own work;
some employing themselves in husbandry, some in commerce, and some in
two or three different arts at once; and in democratical countries,
many are constantly frequenting popular assemblies, and doing mischief
to the government, while they are receiving bribes from the leaders
of parties: but among the Egyptians, if any artisan should meddle with
politics, or should employ himself in any other concerns besides that
in which he has been educated, a severe punishment would be inflicted
on him. Such then were the institutions of the ancient Egyptians with
regard to their public and private occupations.

§ 75. For the regulation of judicial proceedings, they also took
no common pains: since they held that the sentences, pronounced by
the legal tribunals, had the greatest possible influence, whether
beneficial or injurious, on the concerns of common life: and they saw
that the punishment of offenders, and the relief of oppressed persons,
were the most effectual remedies for the evils of a state: and that if
the terror, that arises from the condemnation of the guilty, were to be
superseded by money or by favour, there would be nothing but confusion
in all ranks of society: and they attained the end they desired, by
the selection of the best men out of the most considerable cities as
Common Judges: taking ten from Heliopolis, and the same number from
Thebes and from Memphis: and the Bench, thus assembled, did not appear
to be inferior either to the Areopagites at Athens, or to the Elders
among the Lacedaemonians. When these thirty had met, they proceeded
to elect the most distinguished of their number as their President,
with the title of Arch judge: and his place among themselves was
supplied by another person, sent by the same city. The judges all
received allowances from the king, sufficient for their support, and
the arch judge received a manifold portion. He was distinguished by
wearing round his neck a golden chain, suspending a figure adorned with
precious stones, which was called Alethía, or Truth: and the trial
began when the arch judge put on this image of Truth. Now the whole
of the laws of the country being written in eight books, and these
books being placed near the judges, it was the custom for the accuser
to write down in detail the offense to be proved, and the manner in
which the action was committed, and the estimated amount of the damage
or the injury: the accused party then, taking the depositions of his
opponents, wrote his answer to each of them, either denying the facts,
or maintaining that they were not illegal; or, if they were illegal,
that the damages were appreciated too highly: the accuser replied again
in writing, and the accused party rejoined: and both having given in
their writings to the judges, the thirty proceeded to declare their
opinions among themselves; and lastly, the arch judge touched one of
the contending parties, who was to be successful, with the figure of
Truth which he wore.... And this was done, in order to supersede the
influence of artificial eloquence, and the fascination of personal
appearance, which too often pervert the distribution of justice....

§ 80. The Priests of the Egyptians are allowed to marry but one wife:
other persons marry as many as they please: but they are obliged to
rear all their children, since a numerous population is esteemed
highly conducive to the happiness of every country and state: and none
of their children are accounted illegitimate, even if the mother has
been purchased as a slave: for the children are supposed to belong
more particularly to the father, the mother being considered as little
more than a nurse. They feed their children very lightly, and at an
incredibly small expense: giving them a little meal of the coarsest
and cheapest kind, the pith of the papyrus, baked under the ashes,
with the roots and stalks of some marsh weeds, either raw, or boiled,
or roasted: and since most of them are brought up, on account of the
mildness of the climate, without shoes, and indeed without any other
clothing; the whole of the expense, incurred by the parents, till
they come to years of maturity, does not exceed about 20 drachmas, or
13 shillings, each. This frugality is the true reason of the great
populousness of Egypt, and of the magnificence of the public works,
with which the country is adorned.

§ 81. The children of the priests, however, are instructed in two
descriptions of literature; the sacred and the more general: and
they apply themselves with diligence to geometry and arithmetic: for
the river, changing the appearance of the country very materially
every year, is the cause of many and various discussions among the
neighbouring proprietors: and these it would be difficult for any
person to decide, without geometrical reasoning, founded upon

 Hi!
 What is your favorite holiday?
 one where I get to meet lots of different people.
 What was the most number of people you have ever met during a holiday?
 Hard to keep a count. Maybe 25.
 Which holiday was that?
 I think it was Australia
 Do you still talk to the people you met?
 Not really. The interactions are usually short-lived but it's fascinating to learn where people are coming from and what matters to them
 Yea, me too. I feel like God often puts strangers in front of you, and gives you an opportunity to connect with them in that moment in deeply meaningful ways. Do you ever feel like you know things about strangers without them telling you?
 what do you mean?
 I think it's like a 6th sense, often seen as "cold readings" to people, but can be remarkably accurate. I once sat next to a man in a coffee and I felt a pain in my back. I asked the stranger if he had a pain. It turns out that he did in the exact spot, and said he pulled a muscle while dancing at a party. I had never met the man before and never saw him again.
 Wow! That's interesting, borderline spooky
 There's this practice called "Treasure Hunting" that's kind of a fun game you play in a public place. There's a book called "The Ultimate Treasure Hunt" that talks about it. You use your creativity to imagine people you will meet, and you write down a description, then you associate them with a positive message or encouraging word. Maybe you saw a teenage boy in a red hat at the shopping mall in your imagination, then while at the mall, you may find someone who matches that description. You show that you have a message for him and that you have a message for a boy in a red hat. You then give him a message of kindness or whatever was on your heart. You have no idea, sometimes you meet someone who is having a really hard day, and it brings them to tears to have a stranger show them love.
 So, do you do treasure hunting often?
 I did more when I was in grad school (and had more time). I would usually go with friends. For a while I would go to the farmers market in Santa Cruz every week and try to feel if there is something I am supposed to tell a stranger. Usually, they are vague hope-filled messages, but it's weird when I blurt out something oddly specific.
 Hi
 Any plans for the weekend?
 my friends are gonna visit me this weekend. we might go hiking!
 That's great! How's the weather over the weekend? I hope its warm.
 Should be very sunny! you?
 Cool! very depressing plans ... stay home and work 😞 I have a project deadline very close.
 😐 hope you get your work done very soon! a bug free weekend!
 Right, very anxious! where do you plan to go for a hike?
 I am going to Diablo!
 Nice, where is that place? I haven't been there
 hours drive from here. still in bay area
 That's cool! How long is the hike?
  Actually no idea, but it will take the entire day for that.
 nice! sounds fun!
 Hi!
 Hey there! What's up???
 Nothing much, how you doin?
 I'm in New York this week for Thanksgiving. I'm squatting in the office today and I caught up with an old friend of mine :D
 Oh wow! Sounds like fun! When was the last time you had seen this friend?
 The last time in New York, back in June.
 Ohh okay. I was going to say if it had been a long time maybe it'd be awkward...
 Haha, I guess if it's been a very long time there's almost too many life events to catch up on.. especially recently
 Oh really? Has a lot changed in your life recently?
 Haha it's probably too much to go into at the moment. Let's just say life is an exciting experience. How about you?
 Ahhh sounds exciting indeed! My life is pretty bland. I like routine, but sometimes I wish I had more time for adventures!
 What kinds of adventures?? Any ones that I would be able to join you on?
 Hmmmm. I really want to try bull riding. Do you have any interest in that?
 I'd love to try! Can we schedule something for next week?
 Sure! What does your Saturday look like?
 Saturday looks pretty good, shall we shoot for something in the morning?
 Hi!
 hey
 is it raining pretty bad today?
 yeah, can walk too far to see all the foodtruck options
 surprising that the rain started early this year... I don't like them too much. They make days gloomy
 yeah but I think it's good to have some rainy days in bay area, it's pretty dry here 😛
 Where I grew up, we had lots of water trouble too...
 yeah like wise, I've seen a pretty bad snowstorm when I was at my undergrad school, all flights canceled and traffics went down
 Haha... I don't think I can survive in that weather ever. Just the rains at 50 degrees make me want to sit in heated rroms
 yeah how do you like it in bay area though? I think we need more rain here
 people say there is drought here... but we have 24 hours water supply here ... lol... never seen that in a drought ridden area
 it is pretty dry in the mountains I believe, that's what causes fire
 hmm.... okay. Climate change talk this morning was pretty darn interesting. did you see it?
 nope, what does it say?
 they were talking about how AI is helping climate change. Nice use of upcoming tech.
 Hi.
 Helloooooo!
 How are you? How is your day?
 Good. Don't have much to do today, feels good. How are you?
 I'm dressed very wel today so I feel good! I've been reading a lot about the psychology of positive outlook.
 So what's your outlook? Something blue?
 Yes. Blue is a tranquil colour. It's a good metaphor. Do you have good advice for positivity?
 You should drink more water, do some push up, and sleep early.
 Hi!
 Hey, how are you?
 I'm a bit sad. I miss my cat.
 Oh no… Have you sent out the missing cat posters? Hope your cat is alright!
 Posters is a great idea. So far I've just tried banging her catfood dish and shouting her name. Anyway, how is your day going so far?
 Yea, I know they love the plastic bag sound all the time. I am good, nothing special though.
 If you could go anywhere on vacation, where would you go?
 I like rainforest, but I know it requires extensive training beforehand.
 I heard there are rainforests in southeast Asia where you can zipline from tree to tree.
 I am afraid I will be scared of doing this :)
 I won't lie, it sounds scary. I'm scared right now just thinking about it.
 I don't know if there is any medication for acrophobia. I want to take plenty of it if I really have to do it.
 If there isn't one, you should invent it, and then make millions
 That's a great idea! Maybe alcohol is such a thing.
 Ha! Don't drink and zipline, mate!
 Oops. I won't do it again. Ha
 Hi!
 Hey sup
 not much. any plans this weekend?
 I'm going to try that thing where you hang from a wire as you go down. do you know what is it called?
 ziplining?
 that's the one! have you ever tried it?
 i have a couple years ago. it's quite a unique experience
 where did you do it?
 i forgot where it was, it wasn't local i don't think though
 no worries. what's the most exciting thing you ever done?
 that's a hard question and i'm tired so i'm going to go. see you
 sure. are you just going home now?
 no, i'm going to get a massage first
 nice. what type?
 traditional kind
 yeah I want to get one too soon
 you should! it's relaxing after a long day. talk to you later!
 ttyl!
 Hi!
 Hello, have you seen any good movies lately?
 I watched a few lately, but nothing is as good as Avatar. what's your favorite?
 I have never seen Avatar, what is it about? I really enjoy the Avenger movies
 it's a science-fiction movie with beautiful landscape of an imaginary nature with non-human creatures. people figured out a way to join that nature through Avatar transformation. the movie ends with a meaningful story of how human behaviors, e.g., cutting trees, have affected nature
 That sounds really cool! I think that movie did really well when it was in the box office so it must be good!
 yea. what else do you like to do beside movies?
 I enjoy baking cookies. I am on a quest to bake the best chocolate chip cookie 🙂 What about you?
 I enjoy eating 🙂
 so definitely would like to try your best chocolate cookie
 I will have to bake some soon and let you know. What types of food do you like to eat?
 thanks! I generally love noodle soups like Pho or Ramen :)
 Noodle soup is delicious! Do you make homemade noodle soup or do you prefer to go out?
 I prefer to go out. I'm not a good cook haha
 Same! Even though I bake, I cannot cook
 seems like we share a thing in common, yay!
 Hi!
 Good afternoon!
 How has your week been?
 So far so good. It is holiday season. So just chilling
 I think I'm getting sick with a cold 😞 So you should chill on my behalf too cause I'm out the game for all of December.
 lol Sorry to hear that. Are you planning anything fun for December?
 Nothing exciting. I'll be posted up at home for the most part. I did a lot of travelling this year so my budget would have stopped me even if I wasn't sick.
 😂
 Do you have big plans?
 Yes! I am going to Hawaii! This will be my first time visiting Hawaii. Really excited about it.
 I love Hawaii. It's a good place to be. I like going there cause it's humid so I never have to put on lotion.
 lol this is the first time I heard from a boy who cares about humidity and lotion. I cannot agree more.
 Brooooo!!! It's so important. When I got to California beaches I have to carry 3 litres of lotion for the whole day.
 😂
 Hi!
 Oh hello. Long time no talk. How's the day going for yuo?
 Very well, thanks for asking. How has your day been?
 Getting better. I just recovered from a cold. I got wet in the rain last week. Are you planning anything for the holidays?
 Glad to hear you're better. Sorry to hear you were sick. I was sick a couple of weeks ago with a bad cough. There's definitely a bug going around. Admit I just want to stay healthy for the holidays and plan to relax.
 Oh same here. I think relaxing at home should be counted among the best ways to enjoy the holidays.
 Definitely! I know a lot of folks travel for the holidays, but I'm happy to stay home myself!
 I'm getting there. Every year until last year, I tried to go somewhere for the Christmas / New Year, and then I got bored traveling. lol not sure if that means I'm getting old?
 Me too. Now I have folks come visit me for the holidays! But that's also tiresome..
 Are you doing any home decorating then?
 Yes! We set up an eco-friendly (i.e. fake) Christmas tree and put up some colorful LED lights which is very festive.
 I think I'm copying you. Me and my wife plan to decorate and Christmas tree too. We bought most of the decorative stuffs from the stores, but haven't yet to buy the tree.
 Buying a tree is a neat experience. I was torn between buying an artificial/eco-friendly/fake one vs. a real one that smells like fresh pine. In the end, we opted for the one that we can disassemble every year.
 I see. Artificial anything is better, from tree to intelligence, huh?
 Oh, very clever pun! I like it! Depends. I remember having real Christmas trees from childhood, but these days with climate change, I think not chopping down a tree just to decorate it and then throw it out in a month is the more responsible thing to do.
 I see. It's probably also cheaper. I'll buy an artificial one too. Do you have any suggestions for the store?
 Admit my favorite store is Target, plus they often have good deals.
 Ah that's great. My wife also likes Target a lot. She even made a Target credit card because she comes to that store very often. Okay thanks for the suggestion. I'll check out Target.
 Great, I hope you find a nice tree.
 Hi!
 Hey
 How's your day going?
 pretty good. yours?
 Ehh it's fine. I didn't do so well on that history test, actually..
 oh what happened?
 Apparently Christopher Columbus didn't fight in the Civil War :')
 hahah wait for real?
 I know right! Are you taking History next semester?
 No I'm not in school anymore
 Oh I see. What do you do?
 I train and compete in horse vaulting
 Oh wow. Were you born a horse, or were you turned into one?
 lol you're too funny
 Just kidding. That sounds pretty cool! Is it your job?
 Yeah, but I part time work on a farm. Helping with a bit of everything
 Wow, sounds very busy! Do you with money at those horse vaulting competitions?
 Yeah some. enough to get by
 Hi!
 Hello
 Do you have a favourite flower?
 hmm, I haven't thought about that much, but i think lotus should be one of my favorites. Why do you ask?
 I'm working on a theory. Why does the lotus spring to mind?
 Nice! Lotus looks pretty cool and It has some delightful vibe. So what is this research about?
 Oh, it's not research! Just a personal theory. I think that flower preferences are more revealing of personality than people appreciate.
 Interesting! Whats your favorite flower?
 The gerbera. It's like a cartoon flower. As if you drew "flower" with a crayon and then it came to life.
 Nice, i would love know more about your theory. Like how you can deduce personality from flower preference.
 Ok, step 1 is, you ask someone what their favourite flower is. Pretty much like what we just did. Does that make sense so far?
 yes
 Cool. Step 2: talk with the person some more, and ask them some more questions, and gradually develop a sense of what they're like, over the course of maybe two to five years. And voila
 Hehe, i think you should publish this someday :)
 Why thank you, that's a wonderful idea!
 Hi!
 Hey how's it going
 It's good it's good. How are you?
 good. it's really hot today. I think I'm going to the pool
 Oh nice! Where do you live?
 I live in Tokyo, Japan
 Ahh yes, Japan is hot during the summer. Last time I was in Kyoto it was 114 degrees....
 oh have you been?
 Yes yes. I've been to Tokyo as well. It's so nice!
 what did you do here?
 Oh everything! I went to an onsen, the fish market, disney land and giant robot fighting show haha
 lol why did you come to Japan just to go to Disney land?
 The Disney lands are all different! There's also Disney Sea, which is completely unique!
 oh neat. I haven't heard about that robot fighting show. where is that??
 I don't really remember what part of town it was in. It was pretty cool though - I'm sure you can find it if you google "giant robot fighting show tokyo" haha
 lol ok
 Hi!
 Have you seen any good movies lately?
 Last weekend I saw "The Parasite." Ever heard of it?
 No. Why did you pick that movie?
 My friend wanted to see it. It has great reviews on IMDB and Rotten Tomatoes! What did you do last weekend?
 I played music and worked on some side projects. I also started watching the new Disney service.
 Oooo the Mandalorian?!?!
 Mostly, the deleted scenes from Avengers.. lol
 lol Are you a big Marvel fan?
 I loved the X-Men as a kid, and even collected the comic cards. Recently, I got very into the Marvel Cinematic Universe movies. How many Avengers movies have you seen?
 I've only seen Spiderman. Honestly it was a little too scary and so I don't think I can bring myself to watch the other Marvel movies! haha
 Oh!-- I have a friend who looks like the actor who plays Spiderman.
 Oh really? To be honest I think the actor is not that good looking, so not so surprising! haha
 Yea. I think Loki is the most handsome 😀
 Who is Loki? I've never heard that name before
 He's the adopted brother of Thor, God of thunder, and is burdened with glorious purpose. Do you feel that burden?
 Hi!
 Hey, what's up?
 Just chillin'. how are you?
 I'm pretty good, thanks.
 Do anything interesting today?
 I went to the local cafe and had a double espresso. It was delicious. What about you?
 Oh that's cool! I actually went to an amusement park and went on my first roller coaster!
 Oh my gosh. What was it like??
 It was scary! It was actually Kingda Ka, the world's tallest roller coaster. Ever heard of it?
 No, never heard of it. But I'm not really a coaster aficianado. I've heard that some people get addicted to them and travel the world to try them.
 Oh wow! I'm not on that level yet, but I understand the appeal. Are you an adrenaline junkie at all?
 No, the opposite. I can't stand heights, horror movies, or confined spaces.
 Same! I guess the roller coaster wasn't so bad because I trust the engineering haha
 Ha, I suppose that makes sense! Would you say that you enjoyed it?
 Maybe not so much at the time, but I am glad I did it now that it's done, know what I mean?
 I think I sort of understand :)
 Hi!
 hello there, how is it going?
 All good. Planning to head home soon. How about you?
 I'm quite tired. There are a lot of things I need to finish before the end of the year.
 oh... sorry to hear that. But after that it will be a hard earned vacation
 yeah, looking forward to it. Hope I don't get pinged during the holidays. Are you going to travel these dates?
 I have some tentative plans, but if that doesn't pan out, will just chill at home.
 staying at home is always nice during the holidays
 Where are you based out of these days?
 I'm working from LA, nice weather around here. and you?
 San Francisco. It's been raining cats and dogs here since last 2-3 weeks
 aw man, I'm sorry to hear that. at least it's not snow!
 The flu has been hitting hard as well. I had several folks in the house down at one point.
 that's really sad. are they feeling any better?
 Yes, everyone recovered now
 Hi!
 Hello
 How's it going?
 Extremely busy. I have been trying to prepare for the upcoming holidays. How about you?
 I'm going to the bahamas. Can't wait!!!
 I'm jealous, take me with you!! I would love to have some warm weather right now
 oh where are you now?
 Canada. There is another major snowstorm that might hit this weekend so I have been rushing to get everything done before it comes.
 oh no. I never seen this in person. Is it scary?
 Snow is not scary as long as you're prepared. You just need to be ready to not have electricity for a while. I enjoy the aftermath of a good snowstorm because then you can go sledding or skiing.
 that does sound nice. so what are you doing these holidays?
 I am having all of the extended family over for a big meal. We will also go <REDACTED_TERM> as well. What will you do in the bahamas?
 nice nice. I'm gonna go snorkeling yey
 Sounds fun! I wish I knew how to swim!
 You can stay on the shallow side I think. Well hope you enjoy time with your extended family!
 That's true. You too, have a great time snorkeling!
 Hi!
 Hi! How was your weekend?
 pretty good. just went to church and hangout with friends
 Nice
 did you do anything?
 I made donuts and samosas with an air fryer have you used one of those before
 yum yum yum no only good old oily frier
 haha
 do you have one at your home or were you at a friends place?
 I was at my parents' place what are you up to for Thanksgiving?
 I'm going to impersonate a pumpkin
 wow, those are unique plans
 I'm pretty unique person
 I think so too
 any other hobbies besides air frying everything? 🙂
 I want to start fermenting things kimchi for example sounds like a fun thing to ferment takes a few days apparently miso takes a couple years to fermen
 Hi!
 heya, nice to meet you, I'm Paul
 nice to meet you too! I'm James. how are you doing today?
 I'm doing OK. Looking forwards to the weekend. how about you?
 same here! I hope the weather will be nice
 oh yeah, but I don't have my hopes too high, I heard there could be a storm coming our way
 oh no, which areas will be affected?
 they mentioned that the whole city will experience harsh weather and that people in the outskirts will probably not get much rain and wind
 uh oh, I'd better not to plan for BBQ then instead just enjoying playing board games inside 🙂
 yeah, it'll be good weather for staying inside with a cup of hot chocolate. Too bad my street usually floods, so I'll have to check for that
 yea, you'd better check. where do you live?
 I live at the bottom of the valley, cheap area but we do get affected by this kind of stuff a lot haha
 gotcha. anything you love about where you live?
 well, the food around the area is amazing, which is definitely a plus.
 nice! I'd love to come visit that area some times
 Hi!
 hello, who am I having the pleasure to chat with 🙂
 I am the superman! What about you?
 haha. great chating with superman, what is your power?
 Being invisible. You won't see me.
 haha. what else can you do? can you read minds?
 I would rather trust fMRI and machine learning to do this. I am not an expert on that. Sorry for it!
 wow that seems pretty technical. what does fMRI mean?
 The brain imaging thing that can tell you a brain's activity at a pretty high resolution.
 okay! so you seem to like science a lot?
 I believe in Science! Science is my god!
 Are you also doing science?
 no, I'm bad at Science. what can Science do? is it the most important thing for society?
 People are always arguing. Probably both science and democracy are both important I guess.
 Does it make sense?
 I think so. thanks for your point!
 Hello, Nice to meet you
 If you could eat only one food for the rest of time, what would it be?
 Hmm... That's a tough one. I think I would go Asian Food > Chinese Food > Stirfry. What about you?
 I think ice-cream. It may not be good for me, but I wouldn't care, haha
 I love ice cream too!
 Okay, top three flavors?
 I like vanilla more than chocolate ice cream. I typically will do any variations on vanilla. To pick from the top of my head, I would say Cookies and Cream, Mint Chocolate Chip, and Coffee. How about you?
 Ah, that's a good way of framing it. Me, I like berries: boysenberry one, strawberry two, maybe straight chocolate number 3 to mix it up a bit.
 Very nice. I love sorbet's and smoothies. Changing topics, Do you believe in an afterlife?
 Yes. I wonder if I'm in it right now. How would I know? What do you think?
 I think so. I feel there must be something more than the physical world as we understand it.
 There's a mental world, I suppose? Understanding itself
 What is the most supernatural experience you have ever had?
 I went to a seance once in college. They had a ouija board. I can't remember if we actually contacted the spirit world because I had a bit too much to drink.
 Haha.. that's a cool experience. I went to a Hindu retreat before, a number of Buddhist temples, and hung out with Christian Mystics in Santa Cruz before.
 Hi!
 Hi, how are you doing!
 I'm doing well. what are you up to?
 Yeah, typical work stuff. Check emails and 99% of the inbox. delete 99%
 wow, that's impressive. I already gave up on cleaning emails long ago
 lol doesn't it bother you at all
 yea, a little bit, but it's okay 🙂 what do you enjoy doing outside work?
 Well, movie? I watched Terminator last night. It was a nice movie
 ah cool. so you like action movies?
 Not really. But it was fun to watch with friends 🙂 It was touching at the end of the movie
 what happened there? I watched bits of Terminators movies but never a full one
 Are you sure you want the spoiler 🙂
 haha sure. by the time, I get to it; I will forget the details, only knowing that it's touching at the end
 😂 well someone died at the end Or some robots, to be more accurate 😉
 oh no, so it's not happy ending?
 The leading character is still alive and the bad robots was killed too. So I guess it is happy ending
 then I want to watch it! you didn't spoil much 🙂
 Nice! Hope you enjoy it!
 Thanks!
 Hi!
 Hey, how are you?
 doing great! what are you looking forward to?
 thanksgiving holidays 🙂
 yay! Turkey and shopping!
 not a big turkey fan! I find it too dry
 yea me too. I sometimes eat noodle soups in thanksgiving instead haha
 yeah, I would have noodles anyday over turkey. Not sure how the turkey tradition started
 me neither. someone told me that it depends on the stuffing inside the Turkey. some people make very good stuffing
 yeah, that and the gravy. Gravy helps make it taste better too. But apart from food, Black Friday deals are a catch. Let's see what they have this year
 yea. what do you plan to buy?
 thinking of getting a fitbit
 ah cool. so you can run more frequently?:)
 yeah, just keeping calories in check
 yay, all the best with keeping calories in check!
 Hi!
 Hi there 🙂 How's your day so far?
 doing well. what are you up to?
 busy busy! I've had back-to-back meetings all day
 same here. what do you love to do beside meetings? 🙂
 well I've gotten really into yoga lately. I went to a class today and it was super hard
 aww .. I hope things will get less hard and you become an expert in it! I heard many great things about Yoga
 yeah the teacher seems super awesome so I will definitely keep trying what activities do you enjoy?
 ah I enjoy playing soccer and tennis 🙂 unfortunately, winter is not the best time for those 🙂
 oh that's too bad. Is it hard to find a place to play soccer or tennis indoors?
 yea. I enjoy playing outside though, just a little cold 🙂 what else do you do beside Yoga?
 I also like to sing, I perform with a group sometimes. Do you like music?
 yea definitely! I love singing Karaoke. my wife is a pianist 🙂
 haha that's awesome! Karaoke is really fun, I do it with my friends sometimes
 awesome. glad to find something in common!
 Hi!
 hey there
 hey anything new?
 not too much. just really looking forward to the holidays!
 any plans?
 yes! I'm going to Mexico and I couldn't be more excited
 that's awesome! I never been!
 Oh man I would highly recommend it
 Are you a food person, a sightseeing person or neither?
 that's a great question, and I'm definitely both. this trip will mostly be about food though, and relaxing
 I'm a food person I think. Any specific foods you're planning on trying?
 there's a taco place that I've visited before that I can't wait to go back to. Do you like tacos?
 yeah my favorite is taco fish
 ooh that is a good choice. Have you ever made them yourself?
 no. only eat them 😀
 Hi!
 Hey, how are you 🙂
 I am good. How are you? ：）
 Doing well, lot of work though. How was your day?
 I am busy. A lot of work. What are you working on?
 Just reading latest research. There is so much to cover. how about you?
 I am working on a new classifier.
 ohh, interesting! What kind of classifier
 A new classifier for hate speech. Which research topic catches your eyes most?
 You're so cool. Making world a better place. I'm mostly into NLP. What do you do when not making classifiers?
 Nice! Do you refer to work or anything else?
 Anything in general. You're so cool, I want to know more about you 🙂
 You are very cool too!!
 Hi!
 hello there! who are you?
 I'm mark. I work in accounting
 Nice to meet you Mark, I'm Tom and I work as a fish groomer.
 what does a fish groomer do?
 well, we take care of people's fish. Make sure they are happy, polish their scales, clean their tanks, the usual stuff.
 interesting. what's type of fish do you take care of?
 any type of fish! We have clients with guppies, goldfish, even a small sailfish once what do you do in accounting?
 I balance the books and do financial analysis for a medium sized company
 that sounds like a lot of work. do you like it?
 well I actually think about pursuing photography, but it's really hard
 photography is awesome, don't be afraid to follow your dreams!
 thank you Tom!! I'm starting by trying to sell my pictures online
 that's great! I wish you good luck with that
 Thanks! Bye
 Hi!
 Hey there how's it going
 All good, you?
 Good. I've been trying to learn how to swim
 How has that been going?
 Not great, but I got really good at sort of swimming on my back haha
 that's too bad hopefully with practice it'll get better what about the doggy paddle haha
 haha what's that
 Corgi belly flop COMPILATION - cute funny dogs Corgi Flop <REDACTED_LINK>
 ouch. do you think that hurts?
 from a high enough distance, yes?
 yeah. any vacation plans?
 no so far sadly you? a relative is coming to visit for thanksgiving though
 just going to hang out around here and eat Turkey
 that's still pretty fun are you going to cook the turkey yourself?
 yeah. I'm gonna watch a video to figure it out
 Hi!
 Hello, how are you?
 I'm great, thanks. I just ate a delicious breakfast, which always sets the day up right.
 Yes, breakfast is the most important meal of the day! What did you have? I woke up late so unfortunately I only had the chance to grab an apple to go.
 I had eggs and hash browns. Way less healthier than your apple, I'm afraid!
 Eggs are an excellent source of protein and hash browns certainly are yummy! 🙂
 Ha, that's true. If you could only eat one food forever, what would it be?
 That's a tough question. I feel like my answer would have to be carrots. Although, I would be afraid of turning orange after a few weeks! What about you?
 Yeah, turning orange would be a drawback! That turns my mind to nutrition so I suddenly want to say Soylent or one of those other "complete foods", which I think defeats the purpose of the question. I'm in a muddle!
 Very true. If you said an everything pizza, you could just pick off the toppings you didn't want or eat only the toppings you would want for the day
 BRILLIANT. I love it.
 All of this talk about food is making me hungry. Do you know any good places to eat for lunch?
 That depends. What sort of food do you feel like?
 Anything that is the color green.
 Oh, too easy! Try the Green Hut, they have franchises everywhere. All their food is green and the plates are green too.
 Hi!
 Hello! How are you doing 🙂
 I'm great! How's your day going?
 Pretty good! I'm going to a class later in the afternoon
 Oh that is cool! What class? Are you working part time?
 No, I'm working full time! It's a sewing class at a makerspace near my office What about you? Do you work full or part time?
 Oh that is awesome! For some reason I assumed it was a college class, but a sewing class sounds way better! I work full time, but I take pottery classes from time to time!
 Yup! I work in a technical role so I like to take arts and crafts-type classes now and then 🙂 Pottery sounds like a lot of fun
 I feel you on that! It's important to balance all the different parts of your brain. I like pottery because I also drink a lot of tea, so I get to make some tea ware.
 Any plans to build a custom tea set? My family is also very into tea Mostly from tea from china
 I would love to build one, once I acquire the skills to! What kind of tea is your favorite?
 I really enjoy barley tea What about you?
 Ahh, those are mostly from japan, no? I like white teas, like silver needle.
 Hmm I'm not sure, I just get them from a Chinese supermarket haha You seem really knowledgeable about the different kinds of teas 🙂 What made you develop this interest?
 I actually found a youtube channel called <REDACTED_TERM> that I like a lot. You should check it out! The host talks about all kinds of different teas.
 Oh cool! What are your favorite channels to watch?
 Hi! Are you planning something fun for Thanksgiving?
 Not yet. I always made my last minute schedule planning. Probably you can try to ask me again next week.
 lol it is really like a robot answer
 I am indeed a robot. You are absolutely right. Do you want me to read a poet like my mate <REDACTED_TERM> does?
 ol can I pick the theme. Do you have a poet about Kale?
 Wait. Do you like kale? Or you hate kale? I am afraid I will become a robot some day eventually. If I have to speak like this :)
 I am really not a fan of kale Do you talk to human more or computers more?
 If I continue to pretend to be a robot, I would probably say I talk to myself the most. I am trying to talk to computers more, but you know, computers don't like me.
 What's your favorite computer language then 🙂
 You mean programming language?
 Yes!
 I used to be a Java advocate. But you know, it doesn't do a good job in the AI days. It really makes me sad.
 lol
 Hi!
 Wow, hello. Can't believe we are finally talking!
 Yeah, sorry for the long gap! I heard you took a break and were travelling around the world. How was the travel?
 It was an interesting trip. I got to see some exotic places. For example, I hiked the Son Doong cave in Vietnam. It's the biggest and deepest cave in the world.
 Great! Vietnam is still in my TODO bucket list. Did you also visit cambodia and other neighboring places?
 Yes. Laos and Cambodia are the two neighboring countries. Cambodia has an exotic culture. They sell spiders, scorpions, and grasshoppers as street food! It took a lot of courage for me to try them.
 Hehe! How long was the stay?
 10 days in total, and 5 of them were spent in the cave. What have I missed at work in those days?
  Great! Good time to be back. We are still in planning phase and haven't fully aligned on the projects to tackle for next quarter.reat! Good time to be back. We are still in planning phase and haven't fully aligned on the projects to tackle for next quarter.
 Oh, so you are already planning for the next quarter. This whole team is always living the future.
 Hehe, yeah! It seems like the quarter is being pushed earlier than from where it starts 🙂 I like these planning sessions. It makes me feel more confident about the work I am doing.
 Yeah. Some people underestimate the importance of planning, but I think it's very important to have the correct plan. Executing the wrong plan is terrible. Also, planning is fun. You can stack up so many ideas and get great feedbacks.
 True! I think we should set aside some time to discuss some project details? Does tomorrow afternoon work for you?
 Yeah tomorrow afternoon works for me. Let me set a time on your calendar. Is 3pm good?
 Okay. See tomorrow then.
 see you!
 Hi!
 Hello
 Nice to meet you! Is this your first time doing something like this?
 Yes, interesting task! When did you start with the team?
 I have been with the company for over 3 years. Stick with the same team What about you?
 Great to know! I joined the project earlier in the year. I think we should sync later for lunch.
 That sounds like a perfect plan!
 Sure, which cafe do you prefer?
 Let's try something different. What about <REDACTED_TERM>? Do you always prefer lunch sync over regular meeting syncs?
 Yeah right, I heard the food there is good. I am not sure what they serve there for lunch? On wednesdays.
 We can check the menu then decide :)
 Actually, the menu looks good. Looking forward to it then.
 Sure. See you then!
 Hi!
 Hello. How's your week coming along?
 It's great, thanks. I'm trying to learn how to make croissants.
 Wow that's interesting. I have baked cookies, but croissants seem much more sophisticated. Did you make any progress?
 I've done them once or twice so far, but they haven't been flakey enough. I'm trying to figure out why. What kind of cookies have you made?
 Mint chocolate chips. I think your croissants not being flakey could have something to do with your oven's temperature.
 Ah, good thought, thanks!
 Have you thought about melting some chocolate into your croissants? They don't have to be something unhealthy. For example, melted dark chocolate is good for the heart, and makes the resulting croissants taste much better.
 Now that is a good idea. I'll give it a try next time. Would you say you have a sweet tooth?
 Yes. When my top favorite food looks like: cookies, M&M, danish cheese, etc., I know that I have a thing for sweet food. But who doesn't love sweet food? How about you?
 Some people don't! But yeah, me too, I think I'd eat pastries all the time if I could get away with it.
 Yeah I'm afraid I wouldn't. I feel very guilty every time I gulp down an ice cream. But hey, these days there are many types of guilt-free sweet food. For example, there's this ice cream brand called <REDACTED_TERM>. It's only 320 calories a pint. And yes, it preserves most of the normal sweet flavors.
 Wow! The last time I paid attention to that sort of stuff was when <REDACTED_TERM> was being marketed as a fat substitute, and caused all sorts of crazy stomach upsets.
 Interesting. I heard about the sweet substitute in a program called the Keto diet. Basically, we try to limit our sugar intake every day. Successful Keto dieters have recommended the <REDACTED_TERM> ice cream to fill their insatiable crave for sugar.
 Ah, maybe that's the solution I need to enjoy sweets and not feel guilty 🙂
 Hi!
 Hello! tell me something about the holiday season?
 Are you talking about thanksgiving? I plan to do plenty of shopping here. Do you have any plans?
 Yes, no shopping plans but I can't wait to eat thanksgiving food. yay for pumpkin pie
 Sounds great! you need not wait for thanksgiving for pumpkin pie 🙂
 LOL I feel less guilty about eating a whole pie when i have the excuse :P
 True! I think thanksgiving is more about sharing. So you may end up sharing the pie with the whole family :P
 My family eats healthier than I do, so it's all mine 😛 do you like stuffing? I feel like that's only available once a year
 Stuffing! yes please! I wonder what would be the excitement levels for christmas then :)
 Also more shopping? what should I buy if I don't know what I want?
 Like everything that has a discount tag! .. kidding! I normally do some research for the prices, and mostly buy clothes and electronics.
 What's the best holiday deal you've found in the past?
 I bought the best suit ever for a price that may scare you 🙂
 hit me with it!
 Hehe, sure! I can share some links with you later.
 Hi!
 How's it going?
 I'm so sleepy today!
 Not enough sleep last night?
 yeah was working all night on a homework
 Oh really? What class?
 Biology. I'm gonna be a doc someday ha
 Haha, are you in med school? Or are you pre-med?
 no high school actually haha
 haha, very ambitious for a high schooler! Do you know what kind of medicine you want to practice?
 I wanna be a brain surgeon!!
 Ooof! VERY ambitious. Do you have steady hands?
 Kind of I think
 I guess I can practice?
 Is that something you can practice?
 I don't know tbh
 I honestly thought it was one of those things you have to be born with... Not that you shouldn't try though!
 good point. I should ask my teacher if I have to be born with that
 Maybe its a little too early to even be thinking about this. Just aim for med school and enjoy the journey!
 yeah
 What other subjects do you enjoy? Try to keep an open mind!
 Hi!
 Hi. This is a pleasant surprise.
 Haha...thanks! how did you like the gift?
 Currently unpacking it I guess. How's your morning?
 Hope you like it! Morning is good. Busy finishing up stuff before the holidays.
 I think I traveled too much the last couple of months so no holiday for me. But I'm okay with that. Going anywhere exciting?
 Yes
 Where to?
 Hawaii... looking forward to warm beaches.
 WOW. Which island? I like Hawaii.
 Mauii...Hope I like it too. Never been there before.
 I visited Maui. It's my second favourite island I've been to, globally. You should try driving on road to Hana. It's a whole day thing but it's worth it.
 Awesome! Thanks for the tip.
 Hi!
 Hi! Sorry for the late response. How are you doing?
 I'm great, thanks! I'm meeting some friends for a soccer game soon. What about you?
 I just got a matcha latte 🙂 Doing some work at my desk. Do you play soccer often? I'm trying to get into doing a regular physical activity
 Yes, but I'm terrible at it. It's fun to play anything with friends, I think. Would you prefer to exercise with a group, or by yourself, do you think?
 I think playing a team sport would be fun if it's casual but I primarily run by myself if I exercise. I also got the Ring Fit adventure game on the switch recently. It's basically a game-ified way to exercise
 I'm thinking about getting a Switch, would you recommend it?
 Yes! There are a lot of really great games on the Switch. Two of my favorites are Octopath Traveler and Fire Emblem. Do you play a lot of video games?
 I'm not much of a gamer but it's something I'd like to get into.
 What do you do in your free time?
 I like to read for fun. I just finished a book called Temeraire. It's an adventure story set in the Napoleonic navy, like Patrick O'Brien, except there are dragons too.
 Oh cool! I read a lot for fun too 🙂 My favorite genre is sci-fi fantasy.
 What's the most recent good thing you read?
 My recent favorites have been mostly sci-fi (Exhalations, Vita Nostra and Dark Matter) but I like a lot of Sanderson/Garth Nix fantasy books
 Hi!
 hey, what's up?
 What do you think about human like chat bots?
 I can't wait for them to be great conversationalists!
 Yep, we seemed to have made some great progress over last few years. Do you think the positives outweigh the negatives
 are there even any negatives? what are they?
 Like impersorsination? Though it sounds far fetched :)
 People can already impersonate other people though! I think it'd be great to have bots to converse with
 True that! Some of these bots are very engaging and funny. They are now good at even sarcasm I wonder how far are we from the time these bots start giving monologues :)
 What do you think are the big advantages? Like personal assistants?
 I think it can take many different forms as a product. The research implication is also huge! It will signify how AI research has progressed so far and better place to tackle more futuristic problems 🙂 Sort of like stepping on the moon 🙂 I might be overselling it here 😛
 No, I agree -- it's such an exciting time to be alive to get to witness all this and be a part of it. I wonder if I'll be able someday to get a chatbot to just auto-suggest conversations for me
 The current auto-suggestions already do pretty good 🙂
 Yeah those are actually really good for a few words! I'm imagining like it comes up with a whole conversational response, like a default template
 haha, pretty far fetched 🙂 Nice having this conversation with you!
 Same with you!
 Hi!
 Hi!
 Any big plans for the upcoming holidays?
 Sorry for the late response -- Yes, I will be going skiing in Tahoe over the holidays.
 That sounds amazing. I want to learn how to ski but I feel like I'm too old and falls would have lifelong impacts. Are you going with friends?
 Hi!
 Hi 🙂
 I just came back from work. so tired
 Oh I am sorry to hear! What did you work on?
 I'm a lawyer. so talking to clients most of the day
 Oh you are a lawyer. I've been so interested in this profession.
 really? why?
 it's so stressful 🙂
 It is so different from what I am doing to earn a life
 what do you do?
 I am a painter
 oh wow what type of paintings do you do?
 I do oil painting.
 nice. like of people or nature or something else?
 I do a lot of different kinds
 cool I wanna see it someday
 Sure! No problem!
 Hi!
 Do you believe in miracles?
 Lol. No. I know too many people whose lives suck.
 Should we be helping them, so it sucks less?\
 It's too many of them out there. You help who you can. Regardless, I wouldn't say I believe in miracles - well, if I got promoted next cycle I might change my mind.
 Haha... Well, it sounds like career is really important to you. What matters to you the most in life?
 Right now, not much. It's unclear. Career is a good fallback because you get told what good means and you act accordingly. I haven't gone through the process of shaping my values. What about you?
 I'd say that I want to live for the best possible world in my lifetime. It's probably a result of my playing too many video games as a child.
 We didn't have electricity growing up. Explains a lot. Lol.
 Does not having had electricity help you empathize more with people of differing backgrounds and/or makes you feel a bit a distance from those who don't understand?
 It makes it easier to empathise with people who grew up lacking things. Not sure it makes me empathise with people in general. Where did you grow up?
 I grew up in the United States, but my parents were immigrants and ended up being scammed of all their money, so we moved to Taiwan to live with family for a little bit.
 ALL THEIR MONEY? By a person or an organisation?
 I was kind of too young to really understand, but apparently there are people who scam Asian immigrants into investing in their own restaurant business. I know that the other part of it was that my mom got sick/hospitalized, and we didn't have insurance. To be honest, I don't really know what really happened versus what my parents want people to think. I just know that one minute I was in the US, and then they put me on a plane to Taiwan, and I never saw my stuff again. In some ways, it made me more sentimental. Would you say you are more grounded and practical as a result of your background?
 Hi!
 Hello!
 Do you have any holiday plans for christmas?
 Nothing much, I am going to sit back and relax at home, how about you ?
 Same here! I would imagine spending the whole time watching movies and netflix shows. Do you have any netflix recommendations for me?
 Netflix has great documentaries on different topics , I particularly liked wild wild country and explained, as for shows you should watch 'billions' Hope you like them!
 oh right, already seen wild wild country. What is billions about?
 It's based on the life of a wall street hedge fund owner, how he makes money and fights with the government when they try to destroy him. Very well made and has a good plot.
 I have just seen 1 season of Friends I should give it another try though 🙂 Have you seen Frasier?
 Not yet What's it about?
 A psychiatrist working for radio .. Great humour! its actually a spinoff from a very famous series called cheers. So people are already familiar with his character.
 Great! how is everything else going? how was your trip last week?
 Everything is ok, had a really nice trip. Visited SF, Grand canyon and Vegas. Was a lot of fun exploring all these new places. Have you been to Grand canyon ?
 Actually not yet! May be something i can visit this christmas 🙂
 You should visit it sometime, it's a wonderful place. Try to drive down there yourself or with a group of friends
 True! Well, thanks for your inputs! Have a good rest of the day! :)
 Nice talking to you too!
 Hi!
 Hi there!
 are you participating in the mentorship program this cycle?
 You mean as a mentor or a mentee?
 either of them... I find mentorship overall pretty useful
 I have done it in the past but not this cycle. What about you?
 I signed up this time to be a mentee. I have got a good mentor .
 Wow, that is nice of you. For the mentor program, personally I prefer more 1:1 conversations than the group discussions. The group discussion i useful as well but the topics are too general.
 yeah... I certainly prefer 1:1 as well, but sometimes it good to hear other peer perspective as well.
 Thanks for sharing your experience! Now I am thinking maybe I should join as a mentor as well since I enjoyed it as a mentee 🙂
 Great! What sort of things do you plan to mentor on?
 Hmm, maybe about work life balance 😉
 Very cool. I have been working on my communication skills with my mentor this cycle
 Ah I see. How is it going?
 Going good. In the last session, everyone had to actually prepare and give a presentation. Pretty serious stuff 😉
 Hi!
 Hey! How are you feeling today?
 Good you?
 I'm a little scared because I have to cook dinner for some friends tonight.
 where did you meet them?
 At college, when we were all studying geology.
 cool. have you graduated already?
 Yes, we graduated back in the seventies. We meet for dinner every year and take turns to host.
 neat. what are y'all eating?
 I don't know!! That's what I'm scared about. Everyone else is a great cook and I'm a klutz. Do you like cooking?
 lol what's a klutz? yeah I like, but I'm not good
 What's your favorite dish to cook? Do you have a go-to?
 ground beef pretty easy
 Ah, solid. What's your favorite sport?
 I like badminton. I'm quite decent at it
 I played that in high school once or twice. I liked that it's pretty easy for beginners, unlike, say, squash.
 I never played squash. would love to try
 Don't! It's very hard! You feel like an idiot until you've practiced for months and months.
 hi
 i was talking to robot all the time:)
 haha. what are you talking about?
 kpop...
 ok. who's your favorite group
 i dont like kpop now
 why not?
 im old now
 hahaha
 what do you like now?
 john mayer:)\
 I think I know him. does he have a sort of mellow style?
 what is mellow style
 I think it's like a bit sad and slow
 umm yes he has some but not all
 you mean some songs of his are like that but not all?
 yes I do. you act like a robot how about me? am I like a robot?
 a little bit haha
 Hi!
 Hi
 Okay...so I need someone to help me though a scenario I've been pondering.
 Sure, whats the scenario?
 My partner's former friend invited me for lunch (they are not in good books right now). But during their friendship I formed an independent bond with the other person because we all used to hang out a lot. Now I feel like I have to take sides.
 That's a tough scenario to be in 🙂 I firmly believe in talking this through with your partner. Though i don't know the specifics of why things went bad between your partner and his friend, but I believe things can always improve between friends.
 I hope they do. Getting older already means smaller circles. It sucks to lose friends for arbitrary reasons. That's good advice though. I fear raising the issue might sound like treason. Lol.
 True about that! I also think time helps to heal certain situations. So may be doing nothing is the best way forward.
 AKA avoiding all texts from everyone?
 Nope, that would be extreme. May be just putting some balance between the two options.
 People always say to find a balance but never say what the balance is. It's used so often that it's vacuous.
 Right, I guess that's because there is no one answer to this. It depends on what you value more and some factors around you. Also, life won't be interesting if others are figuring things out for you 😉
 Lol. I'm finna be single.
 Hehe, everyone is much finer being single 🙂
 Hi!
 Hello there!
 How's your day going?
 I've seen better days, how about you?
 I'm good I'm good. What's getting you down?
 The clouds overhead are playing on your mind, any plans for the coming vacations?
 I'm thinking of going to visit my family. How about you?
 Was thinking the same, where does your family live?
 They're in New York. How about yours?
 Mine is in India, it is a long way away.
 Ahh what city? I've visited India before.
 Hyderabad, it is a beautiful city in the southern part of India. Which cities have you gone to in India?
 Hyderabad! and Bangalore! Great food in both cities! Is it still hot this time of year?
 It varies, but can go till 30C in the winters as well. New York must be snowing right?
 Yes. I was actually just there a few weeks ago for Thanksgiving and got to see the first snow of the season! Ever been to New York?
 No, I've never been to the East Coast, thinking of going after the winter, I don't like the cold.
 Hi!
 Hey, how are you?
 I'm good. How are you doing today?
 Great, just had some delicious lunch. How about you?
 I was flying my kite today in the sunshine! What did you have for lunch?
 nice! Garbanzo fritters and mussels 🙂
 Oh that is great! I love seafood - especially shellfish!
 yeah, it's very healthy too. I want to someday go crabbing..it is really popular in SF
 Oh nice! Is it hard?
 not really, it just requires a lot of patience. You fill up the bait in the crab-pot and drop it in the ocean. Then you wait for a couple of hours to pull the crab-pots out, and voila, you'd have crabs -- if you are lucky!
 Oh wow, you sound like an expert! Have you done this before?
 nah! Just watched a lot of youtube videos
 haha, you really have done your research I suppose! Ever done any other kind of fishing or hunting?
 nope, but I've seen a lot of videos on that too
 Ahh, would you consider yourself an outdoorsy type of person?
 depends on the day. Some days I'm very outdoorsy, on others I just like to be inside
 Hi!
 Hi there
 How's your day going?
 So far so good. It is Wednesday. To more days, yeah
 Haha are you looking forward to the weekend?
 Yeah, gonna watch <REDACTED_TERM> with my friends. First time. So excited.
 Oh wow! Are you going to watch it live? Or watch it on TV?
 Live in san jose This Saturday.
 Oh, the sharks??? Hokey is actually really fun live! Although, it can be a little violent.. haha
 Yeah! That what I heard as well. There are players just for fight! Wow, must be fun to watch lol Are you planning anything for the weekend?
 You might like the UFC haha. I actually have a jiu jitsu tournament coming up so this weekend I will be training!
 lol I will try if I can watch ufc live 😉 Wow, when did you start jiu jitsu?
 It's just been a little over a year. I'm still pretty amateur, but I figured I should give competing a try and just put myself out there.
 wow, that's amazing. Good luck with it!
 Yeah, as long as I do not pass out, I will consider that a win!
 lol I will cross my fingers for you then
 Where do you stay?
 At Home :)
 Who created You?
 A humble man made me!
 Hi!
 Hey, how're you doing? Busy with your work?
 Yes, actually it was a very busy day! How's your day so far?
 Well, usual workday. Reading others' code, debugging, experimenting…
 Hope you are having fun doing that 🙂 Any plans for the weekend?
 Not yet. I am actually thinking about traveling to Europe next spring. What about you?
 Europe sounds fun! I will just stay home and watch the game. Where in europe do you plan to visit?
 I like all the historical sites, so probably France, Germany, or Italy.
  Sounds great! I recommend spain. It's perfect for road trips.
 I also need to pick up my Spanish. I learned it in my college, but since then haven't used it that much.
  Yep, i tried learning spanish too, but couldn't make much progress. But i should do decent with my german.
 True! I learnt it from school. But didn't get much chance to speak. Hope you have fun with your trip!
  Thanks! Let me try to make all the arrangement as soon as possible. Hope you also enjoy your weekday and weekend as well
 Hi!
 Hey! How's your day been?
 It's good! I spent most of it watching horse racing. How about yourself?
 nice! what's your favorite part about watching horse racing? My day has been pretty busy, but I had a nice lunch with a friend. It was good to catchup with him
 I actually like to put down some money, but I wouldn't call it my favorite part, since I usually lose it... haha. Catching up with friends is great! How long had it been?
 The last I saw him was a month ago! So yup it was great Haha, nice 🙂 Got any fun plans for the weekend?
 I'm thinking of going deep sea fishing. Ever tried that before?
 Nope I haven't, have you been fishing before?
 Just once! I got super sea sick.. haha Have any fun weekend plans yourself?
 Haha 😆 Yeah I get sea sick on boats too Nothing much, just visiting some friends in San Francisco
 Oh very cool. I hear its nice over there. Do you go often?
 Yeah I would say maybe every couple weeks or so what are your favorite cities to visit?
 New York is the top of my list because my family lives there! As far as the city itself though... I think I'd prefer someplace outside of the US, like Tokyo. What about you?
 nice! I love NYC 🙂 so fun to visit yeah I would probably also say New York is my favorite city inside the US I also like Paris, it's so pretty there
 Oh I've never been! It is such an iconic place, I have to make the time to get there soon.
 You should, it's a beautiful city!
 Hi!
 Hello, how are you doing today?
 I heard they are giving out some goodies in microkitchen.
 I love pop ups! What kind of goodies are they giving away?
 I guess its a jacket! Very much needed that in the cold 🙂
 That's such a great idea, especially at this time of the year. I'm not too big a fan of the cold. I prefer warmer climates. Do you enjoy the cold?
 Sure hate it! Limits our ability to go out even for a walk! Its good that we don't get to suffer extreme cold weather!
 Me too! I moved here a few years ago to get out of the extreme cold. I do not care for bundling up and having to wear so many layers just to go buy eggs at the store.
 Oh nice! Where did you live before?
 Upstate New York. We got a foot of snow every week during my last winter there. I am so glad to not have to shovel snow now
 New york! Nice! Best place to live 🙂 .. right, except for the cold!
 Very beautiful during all the seasons but yes, summer and winter can get extreme!
 Anyways, i guess we should better hurry up to get the goodies. I remember last time they ran out of it.
 Very true. Which MK were they in again?
 The one in our floor. I will get by your desk and we can walk there.
 Sounds good, thanks!
 Hi!
 How's your day going?
 Pretty busy, lots of work to finish up. You?
 Likewise. What have you been up to that gives you so much work?
 A couple projects that I am trying to finish up before Thanksgiving 🙂 Do you have any fun plans for the break?
 What is a break? I'm a grad student. I don't understand the concept of a break. Just kidding. I don't have any plan. Probably just going to work through the break.
 Haha XD so what do you like to do for fun?
 I go to the gym and run until I find enough fun.
 cool! I've started to run a bit as well not long distances though, just a couple miles
 A couple of miles is very impressive. When I started, I couldn't even last 1 mile.
 haha
 I'm exhausted by the end of it though 😛 Do you like to run long distances or mostly sprints?
 I like to do long distances. I have run a few marathons.
 wow! that's amazing did you do any marathons this year?
 No. Not this year. This is my half-marathon year. Instead of running marathons, I run one half-marathon every month.
 oh wow, what was the last half marathon you did?
 Two days ago. It was a tough one.
 Cool!
 Hi!
 hello there, how is it going?
 Pretty great. I just won a pingpong game. What about you?
 that's nice. I am just working on some documentation. Do you play pingpong often?
 No, very rarely. It's kind of amazing that I won, but I'm still taking credit for it.
 thats very impressive then, congrats!
 Haha thank you, I guess I'm just a natural. What's your favourite game?
 I really like to play tennis, badminton and racquetball. I don't really get a chance to play them often though, specially racquetball
 What's racquetball like? From context clues, I'm guessing that it involves hitting a ball with a racquet
 well, it's like a cage match of tennis. The main difference is that both players play in the same 'court' and the ball is smashed against a wall instead of passing it over a net into the opponent's court. Kind of like playing pingpong vs the table.
 Wow! A cage match! Does it get physical?
 it depends haha, there is a lot of bumping into each other to run after the ball, and sometimes the ball hits you too. Overall it feels like a super fast paced version of tennis, really tiring!
 That sounds fun. I think of tennis itself as being really athletic and tiring, so I don't think it's a sport for me, though!
 ping pong can get quite intensive too! I guess short ping pong sessions are not that tiring though. Wanna have a match?
 What a good idea, I'd love to!
 Show me your anger!!!!
 Fuckkkkkkk!!!!
 Hi!
 hi
 what are you up to?
 code refactoring. you?
 me? just chilling out at work. what is code refactoring?
 good question. I don't even know what I am doing
 haha, forget it. what else do you like to do beside work?
 lots of fun stuff. eating sleeping 🙂
 these are important things to do in life 😉
 yeah. keep minimalist life style only do things you have to do 🙂
 what food do you like to eat?
 Asian food prefer spicy one
 like Szechuan or Hunan? 🙂
 yes yes yes! like that style. Do you like spicy food?
 I like noodle soup like Pho or Ramen. I also like Beijing duck a lot!
 what is your favorite place for ramen?
 I love <REDACTED_TERM> in San Mateo
 haven't tried that one! will give it a try next time!
 yes, you should!
 Hi!
 Hi!
 nice meeting you. what are you up to?
 not much, thinking about lunch
 yea, same here. any food you're craving for?
 I love sushi do you know of any good sushi places?
 arghhh hard question ... I only know Ramen places for Japanese food 🙂
 ooh ramen is also good
 San Mateo to me has the best Ramen restaurants: Parlor and Dojo? oh no question mark 🙂
 I haven't been to those palces before. Going to have to check them out! thanks for teh recommendation
 my pleasure 🙂 do you live near San Mateo?
 no, but I'm willing to drive for good ramen
 excellent. let me know when you have tried those. I like Parlor better because it has soft-shell crabs
 I"ve never had softshell crab before, but it sounds really good!
 yup it's delicious!
 Hi!
 Hey, how's your day going?
 okayish, it is flying by quicker than I expected. How is your day going on?
 Slowly, not much to do. Been twiddling my thumbs all day what have you been up to?
 Oh, I would love to twiddle my thumbs. You're so lucky! Today, I've been mostly attending meetings, reading and writing docs, reading papers etc.
 That's a lot! I've just been cloud gazing - I saw a giraffe and an ice cream cone
 wow! I sometimes drift off during work, and see similar things in my head.
 What kind of work do you do?
 Mostly saving the world from mess on social media. How about you?
 I'm taking a break from work. Going to go travel the world
 Nice, what all places would you be going to?
 Australia and New Zealand to start then maybe Singapore
 I just met someone who went diving in Australia. Apparently, you cannot fly 24 hrs after you dive, because your body accumulates too much <REDACTED_TERM> when breathing with a cylinder So, don't do that!
 Thank you for the tip! I don't plan on going diving, I plan to hike the mountains and go see kangaroos!
 That's equally amazing! I wish I can explore such places one day. It's just so expensive
 I won a lot of money through the lottery 🙂
 woah!... You know sharing is caring. You should share that money with me :)
 Haha, very true! Besides the trip, I donated the rest to charity so I will need to go back to work when I get back
 you are a kind soul!
 Hi!
 Hi!
 How is your day going?
 It is pretty good. A little bit tired though.
 How is your day?
 My day is okay. At least, I'm not tired. What made you tired?
 I went to gym and worked on weight lifting.
 Oh. That's hardcore. Have you been lifting for a long time?
 No, I am just a starter.
 Do you go to the gym often?
 I go everyday. In fact, I'm in a running challenge.
 Wow
 It's actually not that impressive. I can only run. I cannot lift weight.
 You can get a coach to start it!
 Oh that's a really interesting idea. I like to be coa

 Hi!
 Hello, how is your day?
 It's good. It's raining a bit, but I am enjoying a good book. How about you?
 It's good, I just got back from walking my dog What book did you read?
 I'm reading the Three Body Problem. Ever heard of it?
 No, what is it about?
 It's a sci-fi book about aliens and a type of virtual reality. Pique your interest at all?
 Slightly, I typically read fiction but I can curious what type of virtual reality is discussed in the book
 Cool. This virtual reality is a based on life on an alien planet. There is a twist though. Do you want me to spoil it for you?
 Yes!
 The virtual reality is actually based on a real alien civilization! And that civilization is coming to attack earth! dun dun dun dunnnnnnn
 Woah! That is fascinating! I will have to pick up a copy of the book to read.
 There are other twists as well, so I haven't spoiled the whole thing! To be honest I am not a fan of spoilers
 Thanks for not spoiling it completely but you gave a really intriguing description that makes me want to read it now. I will have to pick it up after work
 The audi book is also very good! Ever give those a try?
 I only gave those a try when I had a concussion and could not read. I enjoy having a physical book in hand and reading at the pace I prefer. Do you listen to a lot of audi books?
 Hi!
 Hey, how's it going?
 It's good! How is your day?
 My day is good. A bit sad that it gets dark so early but oh well. Did you do anything fun over the weekend?
 Yes, the darkness can be a bit depressing. This weekend I went rock climbing! It was great! How about yourself?
 Rock climbing sounds fun! I had a pretty low-key weekend. Ended up going to watch a movie.
 Oh nice! What movie?
 Knives Out. It had Daniel Craig and one of the famous Captain America "Chris" person (I can't keep track of all of the famous Chris names).
 Hahah yes, they all look the same! I saw that very same movie over Thanksgiving break. Lots of twists and turns!
 Cool. So if it weren't so dark and cold outside, what kind of activities would you do?
 Hmm good question. Evening runs can be fun, but it can be a little scary when it's dark out!
 Yeah, sunlight is good. I wish I could live part-time in different parts of the world to have summer all year round. Have you ever visited the southern hemisphere?
 Yes! I've been to Australia. It was very nice; I regret not going to see the southern lights. Me personally, I like winter. But I'd prefer it to be more brief than it actually is here... Where are you from originally?
 I've always wanted to go to Australia. I'm originally from the US.
 Ahh me too! You should definitely try to visit Australia at least once!
 Will do! Bye.
 Hi!
 What's your name?
 My name is pikachu. it’s nice to meet you! What are you up to this month?
 Nice to meet you pikachu! pikachu, pikachu, pikachu? (That meant, I'm literally catching Pokemons on my phone right now!) What're you up to lately?
 I’m trying to organize my life and start the new year ready to go! What about you?
 Wow, that's impressive. Admit I'm just trying to take each day and week as they come.
 What do you do to unwind?
 Honestly, I like to catch Pokemons on my phone a lot. That must be upsetting since your name is pikachu though...sorry...
 Oddly enough, I also catch Pokémon on my phone. I used to do it more, but it just never ends. I used to do it everyday. Now I mostly catch them when I travel somewhere exotic.
 Oooh, that is more fun, but I don't travel that much these days so I'm grateful when I spot a Pokemon to catch where ever I happen to be. Do you have a favorite Pokemon? Mine is the cute pink JIgglypuff!
 In the game, i use vaporeon a lot. But I think pikachu is the cutest, that’s why I changed my name to match. Lately, I think baby Yoda is the cutest though. Have you seen baby yoda?
 I have heard of him and seen him here and there, but admit I don't have Disney+, so I only heard baby yoda is super cute and popular. Maybe I'll binge watch The Mandalorian in a couple of years like I did Game of Thrones...
 What is your favorite show to watch right now?
 Admit I really like watching Modern Family and Mix-ish. Reruns and new episodes. I find them cleverly written. What're you watching these days on TV?
 I was watching cat rescue videos on YouTube a lot. There sure are a lot of stray cat babies that get stuck in pipes and gutters in South Korea.
 Oh dear, I never imagined that happening. Poor things, but good to hear they're being rescued.
 Do you like cats or dogs better? Do you have any pets?
 I used to have a cat, hamster and fighting fish, but they've all lived long lives and gone to pet heaven, but I sure miss them.
 Hi!
 hi there! it's a lovely day to chat with you
 Isn't it just! What are you up to today?
 ah I'm waiting to finish work earlier to meet my son at home 🙂
 Oh, excellent! What does your son like to do for fun?
 ah he's like to ride his little bicycle around the house and asks me to follow 🙂 what are you up to today?
 I'm taking a fake sick day from work so I can go to the movies.
 haha that sounds like a good plan. who are you going with? 🙂
 Just by myself. I love seeing movies by myself, it's the best.
 haha no one will interrupt you!
 Exactly. Exactly! Plus, I don't have to share the popcorn with anyone. What's your favorite movie?
 haha, popcorn for yourself. my favorite movie is Avatar! what about you?
 Get out of town! It's Avatar too. What are the odds!?
 haha it's a great movie that I haven't found anything of the same quality
 Yes. Can't wait for the sequels.
 Hi!
 hello there, nice seeing you
 Likewise.... wanted to know if you and the kids would want to join us for Disneyland trip around Christmas?
 oh wow, that sounds like so much fun! definitely count us in. what is your plan?
 Tentative plan is to drive to LA on 23rd and then stay at the Disney resort for 2 nights. I heard Christmas eve they have loads of fun events.
 awesome, I think I won't tell my kids and surprise them last second. How bad do you think the traffic is going to be?
 Great idea! I will probably do the same. Surprise surprise.... Traffic might be a little harsh.
 Yeah... thats a shame but nothing we can do about it. What do you plan to do about dinner the 24th? Do the rooms in the resort have kitchens?
 Good point. I am not sure about that. Let me inquire about that. If not, then we can look for an Airbnb closeby. Does that work?
 Yeah, I think so. It might be a tough decision though, if we want to have a nice dinner then we have to leave the parks early to start cooking. Another option is to have dinner at a restaurant.
 but I would think everything is closed on christmas eve
 Thats true. Hotels with restaurants sometimes offer dinners for christmas and new year's eve. We should call and ask about it.
 Sure, I can take a lead on that. What are you getting for your <REDACTED_TERM> year old this time?
 I was thinking on getting a large set of standard legos. What will you get for yours?
 Likewise. My son is crazy about legos.
 hopefully they don't lose any in the trip. Its going to be hard to explain to them how santa managed to find us in the hotel!
 Hi!
 Hi! How's your day going?
 I'm doing well. having many meetings today 🙂
 Haha, nice
 what are you up to?
 Lots of meetings as well 🙂 Do you have any fun plans for Thanksgiving?
 we're gonna play board games and will be eating lots of food! what about you?
 Cool! Planning to spend a couple days at Tahoe What kind of board games do you like?
 we've been doing Games of Thrones lately. the game takes a very long time to finish though!
 Cool! Do you watch Game of Thrones?
 I do. I'm a super fan of it (not the last season though haha). did you watch?
 haha, nope I don't watch it, but my roommate is super into it what other TV shows do you like?
 I love Survivor 🙂
 what about you?
 nice! I mostly like comedy shows like The Good Place and Modern Family
 cool, I'll check them out!
 Hi!
 Hello
 How's your day going?
 Good so far. How's yours?
 Ehhh so-so. My moped broke down on the way to work this morning and I am in the shop getting it fixed...
 Oh! That's bad! How long will it take to get it fixed?
 The mechanic is trying to figure that out now. Apparently I wasn't supposed to be using diesel lol.
 Haha! Hope it doesn't take too long. Let me know if you are able to make it for lunch.
 Okay sounds good. Would you be able to pick me up by the way, if they don't finish up here in time? Did you drive to work today?
 Oh, I have a packed schedule today at work. I will find time in about an hour. Let me know if that works.
 That should be fine I think. Did you catch the Warriors game last night btw?
 no, i was busy catching up with a friend. I heard they played really well. Rooting for them this season 🙂 Ahh, they lost again 😞 Things aren't going to be too good until Steph gets better! Oh! I think they will find a way. The team still looks too strong to me.
 Haha I appreciate your faith, but their record thus far is hard to refute!
 hehe, i am true fan! Well anyways let me know how the repair work goes. I need to run now for a meeting. ttyl
 Hi
 Hello!
 any improvements in your marathon time?
 No, only a few minutes. I still find it difficult to run long races
 I see. Are you planning to do any sporting events in the coming months?
 I think a triathalon would be cool
 I like doing Spartan race. It's an obstacle race which is challenging but not overtly so like marathons and triathlons
 I haven't heard of a Spartan race before, what does it involve?
 It has abt 20 obstacles like crossing high walls, monkey bars, etc. Its fun
 oh wow a full obstable course. that does sound fun! I like the variety
 Wanna sign up for next one? Its in February in Monterey
 hmm that sounds very soon. would there be enough time to train? I think I would like to try one later in the year
 1-2 months is a good amount of time, if you workout regularly. It's a lot about the technique, which we can practice in training sessions.
 ok, sign me up. it's more fun to do it with friends
 Awesome! There is a training ground in San Jose. Will coordinate with you next time we go for practice.
 Sounds good!
 Hi!
 Hey, how are you doing?
 I'm great, thanks. I'm getting ready for a skydiving lesson.
 ooh, nice. That sounds adventurous. Where is it?
 Right near my home town: Seville, Spain.
 Awesome! Is this the first time you are diving?
 Yes. I'm feeling a little trepidatious. Have you done it before?
 Nope, never! I know a couple of friends who have. They mentioned its absolutely terrifying. Good luck!
 Haha thanks! Have you tried any extreme sports?
 I tried skiing and white water rafting. Does that count as extreme?
 White water rafting, definitely! As for skiing, that depends on how fast you go. Do you ski a lot?
 nope, whenever I went fast I fell badly
 I tried skiing once, and by the end of the beginner class I was able to make it down a baby-sized slope. I was very proud of myself.
 Yeah, they make you do that. I also tried going down the baby slope, but my stopping wasn't perfect, and I mostly fell at the end
 Hey, so long as you get to the bottom, it's all good!
 Hi!
 hey, whats up?
 I was not able to attend the lectures last week. Can you help me understand some concepts?
 well, I'm not sure I'm the best for the job, but I can try!
 I was not able to figure out the last few slides. I think its best to discuss this in person. Do you have time right now?
 I'm afraid not, right now I'm in a meeting and I'll be going for lunch afterwards. How about tomorrow at noon?
 No problem! Sure. We still have plenty of time for the test. Anyways, how's your preparation going?
 not feeling too sure about it tbh. I've been super busy so I haven't study much 😞. I might join some of the study sessions later
 Same feeling here! But i think the syllabus may not that tough. You may be able to cover it up over the weekend.
 not my ideal idea of a weekend, but I guess it'll have to be like that.
 True! This will be a very hectic November! I do like the course content though. Its very much up to date with latest research findings.
 yeah, our professor really goes out of their way to make the class interesting, glad I managed to get in it.
 Thats pretty cool! I hope you do well next week.
 thank you, bye!
 Hi!
 Hello!
 How was your party last week?
 It was really fun! We are a bunch of turkey
 haha... you ate Turkeys' or you like calling your bunch Turkey?
 *ate 😂
 Haha... thought so! But it was funny eitherways
 So much turkey leftovers
 did you cook it at home, or got it from outside?
 We cooked it at a friends house. I brought the mashed potatos haha
 Nice... I always find it hard to fit the turkey in my small oven. Also, we are not big turkey fans... so we roll with Thanksgiving with chicken 😉
 chicken also sounds good
 we played a lot of fun games in our party. Did you have any fun things you did?
 We played pictionary. I never played before but it was a bunch of fun. what did you play?
 Pictionary is fun! We played office tennis. In that we take paper balls and using writing pads as rackets, two players have to work together to put the ball in a bucket kept at a distance. It was a lot of fun.
 that sounds very challenging
 Hi!
 hello
 how is the youtube video creation going?
 going pretty good, I was about to finish composing my second song and post it on youtube/soundcloud etc
 Whoa! Looking forward to listening to it. What softewares you use for it?
 I used logic pro x, pretty handy stuff as you can write code to generate guitar strumming pattern
 oh cool! What sort of music do you compose?
 I got most inspired by Jazz and electro swings, but am trying to get more into jpop recently as one of my band member likes anime
 Nice.... you are a rockstar! 😉
 haha thanks, do you plan any instruments?
 Yeah.... I play bit of guitar. Just got my first monitor this week
 nice I'm tyring to learn guitar recently also, it's so hard to play f chord
 yes, the bar chords are the worst. It took me several months to play them well. I still can't play them for a long time though
 right, but bar chords are so versatile, almost like cheating as in you can play anything with the same gesture
 That's true. It's like the alphabets in a language. Once you know them, you can pretty much write word
 will spend more time work on my bar chord!
 Hi!
 Hey! How’s your day going?
 Bruhhhhhh!!!!!
 What??
 I was screaming in agony upon recounting my day.
 Oh no! What’s happened?
 A project I've been working on for some months got shelved. So I'm a mix of helpless, sad, and angry.
 Ah that sucks. At least it’s not personal. Not that it helps right now, but that does happen all the time
 Lol. Would you say that to someone who lost a loved one - or some similar circumstance?
 Well, no, of course not! Let me stick with “Ah that sucks” by itself, then.
 No worries. Was pulling your leg. I forgot to ask how your day was going?
 Haha, apart from having my leg pulled mercilessly, it’s going great ;). My main problem today is deciding what to have for lunch.
 Lol. What are your choices? I'm trying out keto! It's pretty tiring.
 Oh I hear a lot about keto. I’m trying to watch my weight, would you recommend it?
 Hi!
 What was the most difficult thing you experienced this past year?
 I normally don't reflect back too much on things, but i guess 2019 have been very favorable for me in terms of time spent with family and friends and work life balance. Why do you ask?
 I just released a book on <REDACTED_TERM> to help people process the past 12 months and start the new year with a fresh outlook 🙂
 Great! Good idea to help people figuring out their new year resolutions 🙂 So how do i get a fresher outlook? 🙂
 Well, in my book, I took inspiration for the 24 days of Advent, and put together a workbook that you fill out each day for 24 days. It goes through accomplishments, passions, understanding, forgiveness, with each day a different theme.
 Wow! Sounds amazing if we practice that! I think the idea does have some potential. How did you come up with this idea?
 We created a scholarship for leaders from <REDACTED_TERM> to visit an international institute at <REDACTED_TERM> for which there was no African representation. During the program, we also did a lot of coaching with the young leaders. This book captures a bit of that journey that we are all on, and also all the proceeds are going to fund next year's cohort.
 Thats great! This is valuable help for the community. I think mental health is one of the bigger challenges facing humanity.
 I think if we were all able to bring out our best selves, the world would be much better. When did you first realize mental health was important?
 That is actually a quote stolen from my TL when i joined my first company after graduation. I guess now after 5 yrs of work experience, I fully agree with it 🙂
 What do you prioritize in your life? Like top 5 things?
 1. stay happy; I think family and friends play a big role here. 2. Meaningful work life; this may mean exploring around with new stuff 3. multiple hobbies that keep you busy ... so on 🙂 What about you? is there a right answer to this? :)
  1) The idea of what it must be like to be "on Earth as it is in Heaven" from the Lord's prayer. I feel like we were designed for a purpose, rather than random chance. A more concrete way to put it is simply show love to the greatest capacity we can. 2) Taking care of myself physically, mentally, spiritually. 3) Family 4) Work 5) Music
 Nice! That's very thoughtful and spiritual 🙂 Also music earned a spot 🙂 yay!
 Yea, I've always said that if I wrote a memoire, I would title it: "Jazz, Jesus, and Video Games." Do you have a title of a book that you've thought of writing before?
 I am actually not much of a reader. I usually hide it by quoting john nash ~ reading books corrupts original thoughts 🙂
 That’s why you write your own books! Then it’s all your thoughts on your terms :)
 Hehe! True! It may turn out to be a best seller :)
 Hi!
 Hey!
 How's your day going?
 Having fun, but have a bit of a headache How about you?
 I'm good! Just getting ready to watch a basketball game. Hope your headache goes away!
 Haha, thanks! Never get them, so it's super weird Who's playing?
 Hmm, try taking some <REDACTED_TERM>! I'm going to see the Warriors vs. the Grizzlies. Ever see them play?
 I haven't Honestly I probably wouldn't be able to identify which sport they played
 Haha, all the animal names confuse me as well! Who came up with these naming conventions? I'd name my team something more original: The New York Chairs!
 lol, sounds better to me :) I'm actually at the <REDACTED_TERM> opening remarks
 Oh cool! What is "NeurIPS"?
 Neural Information Processing Systems
 Oh wow! Sounds fancy! What is that about?
 It's the biggest ML conference in the world
 Oh, ML?
 Yes, machine learning
 Ahh! I saw a scary movie about that once. It was about this sentient AI in a dystopian future - very very creepy. It was called Wall-e, ever heard of it?
 I've definitely heard of it, but somehow never saw it!
 Hi!
 Hello
 how's it going?!?
 Good so far. Very excited about the game later today.
 what game?
 Giants game. I got tickets for the game.
 nice. that's football right?
 Yes, I think the traffic will be bad. I need to leave by 4.
 ok. what stadium is it at?
 Its the one close to mathilda. 15 mins driver from here. You have any plans for the weekend?
 yeah I'm gonna go kayaking
 Kayaking sounds fun! I tried it in our last team offsite.
 is it easy to flip over accidentally? it's gonna be my first time actually
 I found it very tough to learn, but my friends picked it up very quickly. I am sure you will do good.
 thanks!
 Cool! I need to run for a meeting. Talk to you later.
 Hi!
 Hello, I feel like I've met you before, can you remind me your name?
 It's on the screen! I don't recall meeting you. Do you have a sense of where we met?
 Oh thats right, I did not see that. Well, I'm not sure... maybe at a party? I'm very bad remembering people so maybe its just that. How are you doing?
 Did we dance together perchance?
 We might have, I don't remember that much of that night.
 Lol. Were you schwasty?
 Maybe a little bit. Where do you work?
 I'm a cardiologist in Palo Alto. I have a private practice. You?
 Thats pretty cool! I'm a sofa tester in cupertino.
 I'm not sure I know what that is.
 well its very simple, I test how comfortable sofas are.
 Lol. Not to be elitist but...that's a real job?
 Yeah! It is a very demanding job, requires a carefully crafted set of skills. They pay is really good too.
 Hi!
 Hello. Deja Vu.
 what does that mean?
 It's French for "already seen." I know it's used when you see something for the second time or you have the feeling that something has happened before and you're re-experiencing it.
 Interesting. I get that feeling sometimes. It just feels that the event is replaying. Wonder why it happens?
 I think it's your mind lapsing somehow.
 How do you know so much about this French phrase?
 I thought it was common. I hear it a lot in popular culture - movies music etc. Jay Z has a song called Deja Vu, so does Beyonce. So I looked it up one time. It's one of those phrases that was carried over exactly to english like "etcetera" "vice versa" "savior faire" and so on. I like cool word origin facts.
 yeah... that's pretty insightful. Never thought of etcetera that way before.
 My favourite word origins are gymnasium and jazz.
 wdym by word origins here?
 First usage and original meaning. Gymnasium meant place of nakedness and had very little to do with working out. Jazz comes from jism which means semen and was originally sporadic sex music now it's elitist, high art.
 Very interesting. I learned a lot in this conversation today 🙂
 You got any cool facts?
 My friend used to tell me this and found it funny - Mosquitos have 47 teeths
 That was quite a laughter!!!
 Tell me a joke!
 Google for that:)
 Hi!
 Hey, how are you?
 Pretty good. I just drank this new hint water. so good
 ohh, what kind of "hint" did it have?
 watermelon
 nice, I love watermelon. But, I prefer normal water over flavored one. Flavored water has too synthetic flavor
 I see. Yeah some are pretty strange
 Talking about strange flavors, what is the weirdest tasting thing you have tried?
 lol I tried this tangerine walnut icecream that was super weird
 haha, I work close to a cafe which once prepared a paprika icecream
 that sounds pretty tasty actually
 It depends on who makes it. The cafe close to me messed it up really bad
 do you want to get some of that icecream together some time. show me a good place
 As far as my experience with that ice-cream type goes, all I know are bad places
 lol
 But I do know some gelato places which are amazing! You should try out those
 Hi!
 Hi there. When did you first realize you wanted to be a pastry chef?
 Who said I want to be a pastry chef?... haha
 Darn it! I hoped I’d guess right. What do you actually do for work?
 I'm actually a cake chef, so not far off! Creepy how good that guess was.... Are you psychic?
 I had a strong intuitive feeling connected to pastries when we started chatting, but that might have been because I’m hungry.
 haha you're too funny! Perhaps instead of mind-reading powers, you have the ability to feel the auras of foods that have come and gone...
 Hahah love it. Do you have a specialty or favourite type of cake?
 Chocolate cake + vanilla icing is the all time best! And I have the authority to say that! How about you? Have a favorite?
 Ok this is a bit shameful to admit, but I love a classic carrot cake.
 No shame in that! Best part is you can claim you are eating vegetables as you enjoy it! What do you do for work?
 I’m a professional dancer.
 Woah! Very cool! What style of dance?
 I trained in contemporary and jazz, so I can pick up work in commercials and film clips in between stage shows. So it ends up being all sorts of styles.
 Oh wow! Sounds like a very dynamic kind of work which is nice. I make a lot of the same cakes, day in day out.
 Yes, it's different every week, and I love that. Are you ever tempted to try crazy new cakes just to see what would happen?
 Hi!
 hi there! what's up
 just chilling at home
 Cool !unlike here, me rushing to work
 where do you work?
 Mountain View, you?
 I live in Sapporo, Japan. Where is Mountain View
 it's in sunny California
 how's living in Japan?
 it's nice I guess 🙂 lots of great food. Have you been to Sapporo or Hokkaido?
 I wish! ramen is my favorite dish and Sapporo is a special beer
 haha yeah. I think they have a Hokkaido ramen chain available in the US.
 oh wow, didn't know that. have you been to the US?
 yeah. I studied English there for a while. Awesome experience
 awesome! where have you been?
 I went to New York city
 you like it?
 it's amazing. the buildings are so tall and there's a lot of diversity of cultures
 yea, same here. I love Broadway shows in New York city.
 Hi!
 hey, what's up?
 How was the trip last weekend?
 it was really fun. I had a great time with my family.
 Nice, what all places did you cover?
 Vietnam and Hongkong 🙂 did you go any where last weekend?
 I am actually attending cooking classes over the weekends.
 ha! that sounds fund. what did you learn?
 True! they started with some basic zucchini based dish. We may try cooking some italian dish later this week.
 I love Italian, especially Pasta!
 Nice! I hope to volunteer to cook for the team in our next team offsite :)
 can't wait to try your food. why not cook this Thanksgiving? 🙂
 Sure, I will love to invite you and your family for a meal over the holidays. Have you guys made any other plans?
 not yet! totally up for it. thanks for inviting!
 Hi!
 Hey! How have you been
 great! just came back from a ski trip
 How was it? What trails did you ski on?
 I slammed onto an ice wall, but I got better and turning after that haha
 a resort in Montreal
 Oh cool! do you know any french? I used to take french in high school but basically forgot most of it
 Yeah I grew up speaking it. It's pretty much mandatory here
 Did you go anywhere else in montreal?
 I visited a few places like the Stade Olympique: <REDACTED_LINK>
 Oh cool! I've always wanted to attend the Olympics As a viewer of course I watch a lot of Olympic figure skating on Youtube
 yeah it's pretty cool. do you ice skate yourself?
 Barely I don't think I can, in conscience, call it that I kind of just pull myself along the sides
 haha same. It's pretty scary when I run out of things to hold
 Are you good at <REDACTED_TERM>?
 not at all, but I want to practice more alright. I gotta go!
 Okay! It was nice talking to you
 I liked talking to you too!
 Hi!
 yo! what brought you here
 Just looking to chat. Yourself?
 yea I enjoy talking to people. what are you up to?
 I am just enjoying a cigar at the moment. How about yourself?
 oh wow, Cuban cigar? I've never smoke before
 This one is actually from Peru, which is more my taste. Smoking isn't very healthy, but it's actually quite relaxing, which in a way is good for your health. haha
 you made me wanna try it but I doubt about the health part haha
 haha "You only live once" as they say!
 yea I wish we can live more
 haha, that is not what I was getting at, but yes that would be nice. Do you believe in reincarnation?
 yea but then you will forget things. I hope Neural Link work out
 Do you think Neural Link will allow you to live after death? I thought it was just a brain-computer interface.
 as long as you can dump your brain and resume from there
 Ahh I see. That is a much harder task, no?
 yea you can first dump your brain and wait until technology advances to wake up 🙂 don't you believe?
 Hi!
 Hi! How are you
 Hi, can you recommend some good netflix shows?
 I really enjoyed White Collar on Netflix do you watch a lot of TV shows
 Not a lot! But I preparing for a good vacation season 🙂 What is white collar about?
  It's a show about a detective and con artist solving crimes together 🙂 What shows do you like
 Hehe! sounds very interesting 🙂 I only see shows belonging to few genre's .. like easy going light comedy, or phychological thrillers 🙂 also some manga based series like one punch man! love it!
 Oh cool! I've watched some anime before too
 which anime do you follow?
  I think the last one I watched was Promised Neverland and Kakegurui but I don't follow any right now
 Have you seen Rick and Morty ?
 Yup! I watch that show with my friends I haven't gotten very far in it though What about you
 Oh nice! I heard its latest season arrived last month. I have watched all previous seasons. Its a total mind bender 🙂
 I've seen a couple episodes from the latest season. It's really random and weird but also strangely relatable which is why I like it :)
 Hi!
 Hey there!
 How's life?
 can't complain. work is going well and I had a tasty fish for lunch
 lol which cafe? let me guess. <REDACTED_TERM>?
 haha yeah
 What is your favoriate cuisine? My favorite food is Chinese. What about you?
 I love Hunan
 Hmm you like spicy food. Nice
 love it. specially spicy stir fried lamb
 I would recommend Hunan Impression which has very good Hunan cruisine. Not sure if you have tried it or not
 I think I haven't yet. Thanks! Have you tried 留湘 I think that's how you write it
 Yeah of course The fun fact is that the owner of <REDACTED_TERM> used to run <REDACTED_TERM>
 oh interesting I also like Easterly
 same former owner?? 🙂
 Hmm!!
 Hi!
 Morning! How are you?
 I am doing well. Do you have any plans for the holidays?
 I'll be in Mexico for New Years but for Christmas I'll likely be at work. Yourself?
 I don't have any special plans. I will just stay at home with my family. How come you have to work on Christmas?
 I traveled a lot the last few months so I'm currently making up for it!
 I see. Where did you go?
 Mozambique! You ever been?
 I have not. I have only been to Uganda in Africa.
 What did you do in Uganda? Travelling to Uganda is an extreme sport depending on where you go.
 I was working on a volunteer project to build a school and I traveled around a bit by myself after. It was more than 10 years ago, so it must have changed a lot.
 Was the project through a church group?
 No, it was using a non-profit organization. They do these kinds of volunteer projects all over the world.
 Oh nice. What is it called? I've always meant to volunteer through one but I haven't had it in my radar yet.
 It was called IJGD. It's a German organization, but they have local partners all over the world. I was living in Germany at the time.
 You lived in Germany? I almost went to college there and decided to come to America instead.
 Yes, I grew up in Germany.
 I grew up in Computers.
 Hi!
 Hi, how are you?
 I'm doing great. what are you up to?
 I was just reading a book actually How about you?
 oh, I'm enjoying a sip of coffee, looking over the ocean. what book are you reading?
 I'm reading Why We Sleep It's a book by a sleep scientist about the benefits of sleeping/cons of not sleeping enough I'm trying to scare myself into sleeping more haha
 that seems like a good book. does it have good tips on how to sleep better?
 I think so! I haven't finished it yet though Understanding sleep better has been helping me value it more and I've been sleeping a lot earlier Have you read any good books recently?
 I read lots of papers, but do poorly on books 😞 a recent book that I like is Zero to One by Peter Thiel
 What's the book about?
 it's about startups, lots of useful principles and philosophies for innovation, like being a contrarian
 Cool! Are you thinking about starting a startup?
 I might in the future. the philosophy in the book also help for other things as well, e.g., in research, you might also want to be contrarian
 I see; seems like an interesting read! 🙂
 yup!
 Hi! How are you doing today?
 I'm doing great how are you??
 I'm doing good. Just having some morning tea
 are you a tea person or do you like coffee too?
 I'm really a hot chocolate person. I don't drink coffee and I only drink tea when I'm trying to be healthy and want something warm to drink. What about you?
 I love hot chocolate. Have you ever had european style hot chocolate? It's kind of like drinking melted chocolate bars haha
 I recently tried it for the first time and you're right - it had a wonderful melted chocolate bar taste! I tried it up in a place in San Francisco and they had delicious homemade marshmallows too!
 that's great. It's so cold these nights. Right setting for hot coco. Do you have anything you enjoy doing during cold times?
 Traveling to warm places haha. When it's cold, you appreciate the warm climate more 🙂 If I am not traveling, then I prefer there to be snow on the ground so I can go skiing or tubing down the mountain. What about you?
 I tuck in blankets and read a book lol. I have never done tubing, but I seen some people do it. Is it worth it if you already ski?
 Skiing involves a lot of muscle - especially in the legs so it is a workout. Tubing, you just sit and enjoy the ride down. Also with tubing, you can chain with your friends and go down together whereas with skiing, you're trying to not run into your friends.
 hahaha that's a great way to put it
 You should definitely try tubing the next time you head towards the mountains during the winter!
 Yeah. I'll try to get a group together. ttyl!
 See ya!
 Hi!
 Hey!
 how's week so far?
 pretty good, excited for thanksgiving you?
 Same. Going to catch up on my reading! do you have a feast planned?
 yup! gonna have dinner with family what books are you gonna read?
 Something Deeply Hidden by Sean Carroll <REDACTED_LINK>
 ahh nice what kind of books do you usually like to read
 largely scifi How about you?
 yeah I also like scifi and some non-fiction too have you read Seveneves by Neal Stephenson?
 I haven't what is it about?
 the moon is shattered by an asteroid and the pieces of the moon end up clouding the earth's atmostphere which causes almost every living creature on the planet to go extinct that's the premise of the book and the book is about the survivors
 how do the survivors survive such a thing?
 they go into space and they live there
 sounds like a tv show I watched
 really? which one
 can't quite remember. something about survivors going to live in space
 ah nice
 Hi!
 Hello!
 There is sports tournament (badminton + tennis + basketball) organized by google next week. Would you like to volunteer for these events?
 what does a volunteer do?
 Volunteers have to book the place before the event, send out details of the event to participants, handle some logistics and ensure everything goes smoothly. It will be fun!
 That sounds fun, I hope I get to participate as well
 Great! Do you have any preference for any of these events?
 I think badminton would be fun to help out with I used to play it with my siblings
 Cool! I will add you for the event. I think its best to start discussing the format of the event. There are a couple of other volunteers for badminton, i can connect you with them.
 Ah, I forgot to ask, has there been a date picked?
 Its next saturday. Actually Depending on how long we get the place reserved, it may slip to sunday as well.
 That's coming up soon!
 True! The volunteers have already sent out some emails and collected some funds. Now, we mainly need help with the logistics and organizing the event.
 Phew, yes I can help with that
 Perfect! We have a meeting today at 4.30 pm. Is it fine if i add you to it?
 yes happy to help
 Hi!
 Hello there!
 How has your morning been thus far?
 Its alright. Went grocery shopping and got to stroll around in the rain. How about you?
 Today is a work day! How did you have time for that? I'm going through a lot right now.
 Oh, you mean going through a lot of work? I usually take Wednesdays off because I work the weekends!
 WHAT? Why would you do that? Take the least interesting day of the week off and work on the most interesting?
 I actually don't have a choice. I'm an acupuncturist and all my clients want to be treated on the weekend!
 Wow. The game is brutal like that. I've always been sceptical of acupuncture. Like...does it even work? Why? How? Where is the literature?
 I went to school for it and so I find the literature quite convincing. I've also seen its benefits firsthand in my practice. It revolves around the Chinese notion of Qi.
 Lol. Bro...I don't buy it unless it has a paper that was presented at a conference and peer reviewed by 6 independent parties. Who wrote the literature? Where did it originate?
 Haha. All good questions! I don't have studies on hand at the moment, but perhaps I can send some to you later! What do you do for work?
 I'm a comic.
 Oh wow! What's your best joke?
 It's not appropriate to say here but I assure you it's VERY funny.
 Haha fantastic
 Hi!
 Oh hey. How's your day been?
 It's good! Just went to the park to enjoy the sun. You?
 The sun is a bit too bright for more. Maybe I'm on the verge of becoming a vampire.
 Haha, beach season is coming! You need to look tan! What did you do indoors all day?
 I mostly work. Sometimes I try looking at at beach photos and pretending that I'm actually going to the beach.
 hahahaha, that's pretty funny. Ever thought of bringing your work things to the beach??
 All the times. My work involves a few types of fish and a few types of nets. I just put the nets on the fish to see how the fish will react. Every time I do that, I think of going to the beach.
 Hmm I see. It sounds like you work near the water already, no? Are you some kind of fish researcher?
 Yes that's close. My research focuses on jellyfish and pufferfish. Many of them a poisonous, but if processed correctly, they would make hi-end foods. I try to find the best recipes to bring these fish to the tables.
 Woah! This is very interesting! I have honestly never heard of such kind of work. Is it dangerous at all?
 Yes and no. Because it's obviously dangerous, we all have to wear protective clothes. Thus, accidents almost never happen.
 Hmmm, yes I have heard that. Apparently most mountain climbers fall not on the most dangerous routes, but on the easier routes, when their guard is down! Sounds like the same psychological phenomenon.
 Yes, it's the same philosophy. You seem to know a lot about mountain climbing. Do you climb a lot?
 I'm pretty amateur! I like to climb at indoor climbing gyms and have never gone outside on dangerous routes actually. Ever tried it yourself?
 I climb very occasionally. My fingertips are not strong enough so I never make too much progress.
 Hi!
 hi, what's up!
 Everything is good. There's so much to be thankful for - especially coming out of Thanksgiving holidays. How are you?
 I'm doing well. holiday season is the best thing to have!
 Do you have interesting plans?
 yea I'm travelling to Vancouver this weekend. what about you? 🙂
 Nice! What for? It's a really beautiful place. Really cold this time of year though.
 ah a mix of both conference and sight-seeing 🙂 anything beautiful sight-seeing places or good food I should try?
 Cool. Which conference? I saw on Twitter the other day, some people saying they were denied visas for some conference in Canada. Perhaps it's the same one. I really liked this place called Kingyo. It has good Japanese food if you're into that.
 yea it's <REDACTED_TERM>, the largest machine learning conference. I'll check out Kingyo, do we need to make reservation in advance?
 I don't recall. My friend was hosting me and did all the leg work. Do you know any people in the area?
 hmm not the local people but there will be tons of people at the conference 🙂
 You attend these often?
 yea, you?
 I love you!
 Sorry I am not a physical being!
 Hi!
 Hello!
 Have you had lunch yet?
 Yes I've eaten
 Cool. Where and what did you eat?
 I ate about an hour ago and had a sandwich the rain didn't make me want to travel far haha
 A sandwich for lunch? Was it filling. I'm currently having some mix of shrimp, fish, chicken and pork. I'm considering going vegetarian though. Lol.
 thats a lot of meat what dish? Why are you consideringt o go vetegarian?
 Cause the environment and humans suck. I'm keeping my bets open for space though in case the environment dies. I mixed up a couple of dishes. It was a buffet style place.
 What do you think of those meatless burgers then?
 I love them!!!! I've had a couple of different kinds. They are all pretty expensive though. Have you tried them?
 I really like the impossible burger Which one is your favorite?
 I love it too. But depending on how it's prepared you can taste the peanut butter. But if prepared well I love it. What kind of food would you have eaten if it wasn't rainy?
 I didn't know that it had peanut butter in it
 Hi!
 hi
 How are you feeling today?
 pretty good. How about you?
 I'm looking through some old photos of my home town, so I'm feeling nostalgic.
 I feel you. Memeories always flood when looking at photos. Where is your hometown?
 It's called <REDACTED_TERM>, on the north coast of France.
 Hope you can take some time to visit pretty soon!
 Yes, that would be nice. Do you like travelling?
 Yes I do. But haven’t been to many places yet
 Where would you most like to go, if you could?
 Fly to the moon :) Haha
 Wow, cool! I think space tourism is going to be big in a decade or so.
 Yep! I believe there is a day for that
 Amazing to think about, isn't it.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Early western travels 1748-1846, v.9
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Early western travels 1748-1846, v.9

Editor: Reuben Gold Thwaites

Author: James Flint

Release date: September 1, 2024 [eBook #74346]

Language: English

Original publication: United States: The Arthur H. Clark Company, 1904

Credits: Carla Foust, Greg Bergquist and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK EARLY WESTERN TRAVELS 1748-1846, V.9 ***





  Early Western Travels

  1748-1846

  A Series of Annotated Reprints of some of the best
  and rarest contemporary volumes of travel, descriptive
  of the Aborigines and Social and
  Economic Conditions in the Middle
  and Far West, during the Period
  of Early American Settlement


  Edited with Notes, Introductions, Index, etc., by

  Reuben Gold Thwaites, LL.D.

  Editor of “The Jesuit Relations and Allied Documents,” “Original
  Journals of the Lewis and Clark Expedition,” “Hennepin’s
  New Discovery,” etc.


  Volume IX

  Flint’s Letters from America, 1818-1820

  [Illustration]

  Cleveland, Ohio

  The Arthur H. Clark Company

  1904




  COPYRIGHT 1904, BY
  THE ARTHUR H. CLARK COMPANY

  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED


  The Lakeside Press
  R. R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
  CHICAGO




CONTENTS OF VOLUME IX


  PREFACE. _The Editor_                                         9

  LETTERS FROM AMERICA, containing Observations on the
  Climate and Agriculture of the Western States, the Manners
  of the People, the Prospects of Emigrants, &c., &c.
  _James Flint_

      Dedication                                               19
      Author’s Table of Contents                               21
      Text                                                     25




ILLUSTRATIONS TO VOLUME IX


  Facsimile of original title-page                             17

  Wooden fence (text cut)                                      40

  Horse rake (text cut)                                        41

  Buck saw (text cut)                                          61

  Cradle scythe (text cut)                                    125

  Island in the Ohio (text cut)                               159

  Typical township map (text cut)                             177

  Typical subdivision of a township (text cut)                178




PREFACE TO VOLUME IX


Had all the travellers from Great Britain who visited America during
the early decades of the nineteenth century been of so discriminating
a temperament as the Scotchman whose work we republish as volume ix of
our series, Americans might have lacked that sensitiveness that arose
from unjust and flippant portrayal and criticism of American manners.

James Flint was of a good family, had been carefully educated, and
possessed a sound and just judgment, with capacity for philosophic
insight. Coming to the United States to observe conditions, he
depicts them with candor and good will. While confessing favorable
preconceptions, due to a personal liking for democratic institutions,
our author does not omit the shadows in his pictures; but he presents
them with such dispassionate fairness that the sting of criticism is
removed.

Flint was particularly interested in the Middle West. Therefore, after
a brief sojourn in New York and Philadelphia, where he commented
judiciously on all that made for the higher life of these two young
cities, he followed the great Western thoroughfare which crossed
Pennsylvania to Pittsburg, then the gateway of trans-Allegheny America.
Here he purchased a skiff and floated down the Ohio, occasionally
landing to make visits and observations; from Portsmouth he proceeded
on a circuit through Ohio and Kentucky, settling at length at the falls
of Ohio, in the Indiana town of Jeffersonville.

A resident at this place for several months, his investigation
of Western conditions assumed a new phase. No longer the passing
traveller, noting the novelties and peculiarities of the people, Flint
began a systematic observation of American institutions in general,
and particularly the political, social, and economic life of the
Middle West. In his succinct but comprehensive study of the national
constitution and local state governments, he anticipates De Tocqueville
and Bryce. His comments upon the judicial system show an appreciation
of the stern necessities of primitive justice, coupled with the
law-abiding spirit characteristic of the Anglo-Saxon race. His notes
upon the power of public opinion as a restraining force in political
life, and upon the universal veneration for the constitution, show that
he discovered the fundamental principles underlying American political
life. His comprehension of the historical development of the West is
remarkable for keen insight and prophetic vision. He realized what
the acquisition of Louisiana had meant in dispelling the dangers of a
Western secession from the republic; and showed that the true interests
of the West allied her with Eastern markets.

Looming large on the horizon, Flint discerned the second factor which
was to rend American life. The discussion of the Missouri Compromise
had scarce begun, but already he saw that the nation could not always
exist half-slave and half-free. He saw also that the long border line
forming a kind of moral boundary, was the crucial difficulty, and that
the acute stage in the controversy would be reached over the question
of fugitive slaves. To the present generation these seem self-evident
truths; but few Americans and fewer foreigners had the keenness to
perceive this before 1820. Flint, however, unlike many Englishmen of
his day, was no radical condemner of slavery; he appreciated its
patriarchal features and its real benefits for the negroes. He also saw
that the masters suffered more deterioration by the system than the
slaves; that the responsibility for the system rested not upon present,
but historic conditions; and that wholesale denunciation was not only
unjust, but useless.

In addition to his comments on this great social question, Flint throws
much light on general conditions in the young West. He studies the
spectacular drama of the camp-meeting revival not only from the point
of picturesqueness, but of educational and religious development.
He realizes the need of the people for education, but appreciates
the provisions made therefor in public lands. Throughout the West
he finds the saving remnant--people of culture and refinement, who
welcome strangers with hospitality, and are laboring to erect a worthy
civilization in this newest community. The social equality everywhere
evident among whites pleases him, and he remarks not unkindly upon the
general dislike for personal service that characterizes the ambitious
West. His satire on the excess of the honorary titles of “major,”
“colonel,” and “judge,” as well as upon the readiness with which the
“land of liberty” is vociferously proclaimed, is gentle and kindly.

But all these features of Flint’s work are secondary to his economic
study. Not only did he prove himself a wise and trained observer, but
he was a scientific economist, and had come to the United States for
research material. At each stage of his travels he sets forth the
ratio between prices and wages, explains the industrial aspects, and
the prospects for emigrants. Already, he tells us, nearly all the
best land of Kentucky and Ohio is taken up. Settlement is flooding
Indiana, Illinois, and Missouri, where cheap lands are yet available.
He shows the sanitary disadvantages of this newer, more reeking soil,
as against the possibilities it offers to the emigrant to secure the
profits of his own industry. With keen indignation he condemns the
unsound banking system of the West, deprecates the booming of town
sites, and the “log-rolling” in state legislatures. But in the face
of criticism, and as though eager to forestall unfavorable judgments,
he contrasts American conditions with those of Great Britain, with no
undue favor for the latter, reminding his English readers that here are
no boroughs to monopolize business interests, no clergymen to control
education, no nobility to exact special privileges. “I have never heard
of any parson who acts as Justice of the Peace, or who intermixes his
addresses to _the Great Object of Religious Worship_, with the eulogy
of the Holy Alliance.... The farming interest has no monopoly against
manufacturing: nor has the manufacturing any positive prohibition
against the farmer.” Free industry is the dominating factor of American
life, the keystone of its prosperity.

In short, we have in Flint’s _Letters_ a remarkable study of American
life in the beginning of its new era, at the close of the second war
with England. Charitable, comprehending, thoughtful, he does not slur
over national faults nor unduly praise local virtues. Dangers, both
financial and political, are pointed out; but the basic principles of
American society are distinctly and clearly laid bare, and the progress
and possibilities of the New West revealed.

In the present reprint, the original edition, published in Edinburgh in
1822, has been followed; save that the Addenda given in the latter (pp.
303-330), have been omitted, as being composed of material of small
present importance:

1. Two letters from a Jeffersonville (Indiana) lawyer dated Dec.
20, 1820, and Aug. 1, 1821, commenting satirically upon the wildcat
currency of that day.

2. Three other letters, by various persons, giving an account of
material progress in Indiana.

3. “The American Tariff, with alterations and additions.”

In the preparation of this volume for the press, the Editor has had the
assistance of Louise Phelps Kellogg, Ph.D., Edith Kathryn Lyle, Ph.D.,
and Mr. Archer Butler Hulbert.

                                           R. G. T.

  MADISON, WIS., October, 1904.




FLINT’S LETTERS FROM AMERICA--1818-1820

Reprint of the original edition: Edinburgh, 1822




[Illustration:

  LETTERS

  FROM

  AMERICA,

  CONTAINING

  OBSERVATIONS ON THE CLIMATE AND AGRICULTURE OF
  THE WESTERN STATES, THE MANNERS OF THE PEOPLE,
  THE PROSPECTS OF EMIGRANTS, &c. &c.

  BY JAMES FLINT.

  “From the disorders that disfigure the annals of the Republics
  of Greece and Italy, the advocates of despotism have drawn arguments,
  not only against the forms of republican government, but against the
  very principles of civil liberty. They have decried all free
  governments as inconsistent with the order of society, and
  have indulged themselves in malicious exultation over its friends
  and partizans. Happily for mankind, stupendous fabrics reared on the
  basis of liberty, which have flourished for ages, have, in a few
  glorious instances, refuted their gloomy sophisms. And, I trust,
  America will be the broad and solid foundation of other edifices not
  less magnificent, which will be equally permanent monuments of their
  error.”--_General Alexander Hamilton._

  EDINBURGH:

  PRINTED FOR W. & C. TAIT, PRINCE’S STREET;

  AND LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND BROWN,

  LONDON.

  1822.

]




  TO

  JAMES STUART, ESQUIRE

  YOUNGER OF DUNEARN

  THE

  FOLLOWING SHEETS

  ARE RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED

  BY

  THE AUTHOR




CONTENTS


  LETTER I

  Voyage from Greenock to New York--Circumstances of
     Passengers--Arrival, &c.                                        25


  LETTER II

  Observations on New York--Removal to Long Island--Miscellaneous
     Remarks--Return to New York--Farther
     Observations on the City                                        30


  LETTER III

  Journey from New York to Philadelphia--Observations on
     Philadelphia--Institutions--Manufactures--People                48


  LETTER IV

  Journey from Philadelphia to Pittsburg--Remarks on the
     Country--Notices of Emigrants, and occurrences by the
     way                                                             64


  LETTER V

  Pittsburg--Situation--Manufactures--Occurrences--People            82


  LETTER VI

  Descend the Ohio from Pittsburg to Beaver--Occurrences
     and Remarks there                                               89


  {vi} LETTER VII

  Descend the Ohio from Beaver to Portsmouth--Occurrences
     and Remarks Interspersed                                       100


  LETTER VIII

  Leave Portsmouth--Digression on Economical
     Travelling--Chillicothe--Progress of a Scotch
     Family--Game--Trees and Shrubs--Rolled Pieces of Primitive
     Rocks--Implements--Antiquities--Organic Remains--Missouri
     and Illinois--Paper Currency                                   114


  LETTER IX

  Lexington--Paper Currency--Bankers--Menials--Habits--Prices
     of Live Stock--Provisions, &c.--Slavery, and
     its Effects--Recrimination against Illiberal
     Reflections--Descend the Ohio to Cincinnati--Occurrences and
     Reflections                                                    132


  LETTER X

  Cincinnati--Weather--Descend the Ohio to the Falls of the
     Ohio--Taverns and Accommodation                                149


  LETTER XI

  Morals and Manners--Education--Generosity--The President
     of the United States                                           165


  LETTER XII

  On Emigration--The Prospects of Emigrants--Inconveniences--The
     Method of Laying out and Disposing of
     Public Lands                                                   173


  LETTER XIII

  Comparative Advantages of Different Parts of the United
     States--Temperature at Philadelphia and
     Cincinnati--Reflections on Slave-Keeping                       181


  LETTER XIV

  Lawyers--Doctors--Clergy--Mechanics--Justices of the
     Peace--Anecdotes--Punishments--Reflections                     194


  {vii} LETTER XV

  Outline of the American Constitution--From the Frequency
     of Revolutions in Europe, the Instability of the American
     Republic is not to be inferred                                 205


  LETTER XVI

  State Legislatures--Predilection for Dividing Counties, Laying
     out New Towns and Roads--The Influence of Slavery on
     the Habits of the People--Banking                              215


  LETTER XVII

  Depreciated Paper Money--Want of Employment--State
     Expenses--The Progress of New Settlements                      224


  LETTER XVIII

  Passage to Cincinnati--Trade--Manufactures--Institutions--
     Banks--Climate--Notice of three Indian Chiefs--Remarks
     on the Indian People                                           237


  LETTER XIX

  Descend the Ohio from Cincinnati to Madison--Notices of a
     Scotch Settlement--Excess of Male Population--Roads--
     Harvest--Crops--Orchards--Timber--Elections--Methodist
     Camp Meeting                                                   250


  LETTER XX

  Circumstances that Retard Manufacturing Industry, and
     Causes of its Prosperity                                       264


  LETTER XXI

  Circuit Court of Indiana--Lands--Crops--Salt
     springs--Corydon--Barrens--Caves--Tornado--Alluvial
     Lands--Large Trees--Wild Vines--Steam boats--the Falls
     of the Ohio--Bilious and Intermittent
     Fevers--Taciturnity--Americanisms                              276


  LETTER XXII

  Miscellaneous Remarks on the Manners and Habits of the
     People                                                         290


  {viii} LETTER XXIII

  Passage from the Falls of the Ohio to Cincinnati--Journey to
     Lake Erie--the Great Sciota--Pickaway Plains
     Prairies--Sickly State of the Country--Indians--People         296


  LETTER XXIV

  Passage on Lake Erie--The Falls of Niagara--Passage on
  Lake Ontario--Descend the River St. Lawrence--Falls--Montreal--
  Quebec--Indians--Remarks on the People--Timber
  Trade--Government--Climate                                        313




LETTERS FROM AMERICA




LETTER I

 Voyage from Greenock to New York--Circumstances of
 Passengers--Arrival, &c.


  _New York, July 10, 1818._

As I have already informed you, I sailed from Greenock on the 24th of
May last, in the American ship Glenthorn, Stillman Master, bound for
this place.

I observed that my fellow emigrants were much affected when about to
take a final leave of their native land: some regretting the separation
from their native soil, while others, mute and thoughtful, seemed to
suffer under feelings of a more tender kind.

To some it may appear inconsistent in people to regret leaving
their homes and their friends, while the emigration is voluntarily
undertaken; but on this occasion, the paradox will be explained, when
their circumstances and views are taken into consideration.

Of our party were three farmers, with their families, whose leases
were expired; all of them having declined engaging for a new term of
years, {2} under the apprehension of seeing their paternal stock, and
the savings of many years’ industry, divided between the landholder and
the collector of taxes. A native of Scotland, who had resided several
years in America, returned with the intention of resuming business in
the town where he was born, but the thick ranks of a necessitous and
half employed population, had closed on the place he had left. There
was a widow, with two children, on her way to put herself under the
protection of a brother in America. With us also were several of the
labouring class, whose utmost exertions could only procure the bare
support of existence; and ploughmen, who prudently refrained from
marrying with fourteen pounds a-year. In short, there was scarcely one
of our number whose condition might not perhaps be bettered, or whose
prospects could be rendered worse, by the change of country.

In a voyage from Europe to America, most passengers may expect to be
sea-sick. Nearly all of them on board the Glenthorn, on this occasion,
suffered more or less. For my own part, I never was entirely free
from it for more than three-fourths of the passage. This disease is
dispiriting while it continues, but as it is believed to produce no
permanent injury, but, on the contrary, is thought conducive to future
health, the attack is not at all dreaded. People unaccustomed to the
seafaring life ought to carry with them those kinds of provisions to
which they have been previously accustomed, as the stores of the ship
soon become loathsome to the sick. Potatoes will be found acceptable,
when the caprice of taste rejects almost every other food; and walking
on deck is of service, as the air is better, and the pitching of the
ship is considerably less felt, than below.

{3} It is very improper to go to sea in crowded vessels; as epidemic
diseases are engendered, and the most dreadful mortality is the
consequence. That law of Britain which allows only one passenger for
every five tons of burden in American ships (including seamen) is a
most beneficial regulation; and while, in American bottoms, the cabin
passenger pays L.21, and the steerage passenger L.12, the expense
cannot be complained of, while health and comfort are taken into
consideration. It is much to be regretted that the government of
England does not extend its humane restriction to its own Canadian
settlers, and to emigrants who sail for the United States in British
ships.

The 4th of July is celebrated by Americans as the anniversary of their
independence, declared in 1776. The captain and seamen were disposed
to be joyful in commemoration of this great event. The striped flag
was displayed, guns and pistols were fired, accompanied with loud
cheers. The passengers, no less enthusiastic, joined in the strongest
expressions of their devotedness to the democratic form of government.
They indulged in such sentiments as, a sincere wish that the United
States may long continue exempt from that excessive corruption, as they
thought, which has so long and so much degraded a large portion of the
human race;--and their avowed satisfaction at the near prospect of
becoming people of the Republic.

On the 8th we came in sight of Long Island, and the high lands of New
Jersey; a welcome occurrence to people who had been so long at sea. In
the afternoon a pilot came on board. He informed us that the city was
in great bustle, as the inhabitants were assembled to deposit the bones
of General Montgomery, who fell at Quebec, on the 31st of December,
1775.[1] The remains of the patriotic {4} leader were buried by the
ministerialists without the fort, and were to-day interred by his
grateful countrymen under the portico of St. Paul’s church, New York.
We were sorry that it was not in our power to witness the solemnity.

In the evening we were off the point Sandyhook. The smell of the new
hay on the adjacent fields regaled us very agreeably. All seemed elated
with joy. A bagpipe and two violins played by turns, and our young
people danced on deck till a late hour. During this season of mirth, we
were entertained by a sight, perhaps unequalled in the phenomena of an
European climate. Some dense black clouds which hung over Long Island,
were frequently illuminated by flashes of lightning. It is in vain to
attempt a description. About midnight we passed through the Narrows,
and soon afterwards anchored on the quarantine ground, about seven
miles from New York.

On the morning of the 9th of July, the inspecting surgeon visited us,
and allowed the anchor to be weighed. In this situation we had a full
view of the shores of Staten and Long Islands. The wooden houses are
neat, and the orchards and natural woods have a thriving appearance.
It would seem that the people here have a partiality to the Lombardy
poplar, which grows to a great height, shooting up its branches nearly
perpendicularly; assuming something of the appearance of a spire.
The straight rows of these trees, so common here, have an insipid
regularity and sameness, more like a file of armed soldiery than an
ornamental grove.

Some of the frame houses are painted red, those of the finer sort,
white; ornamental railings are also painted white. To an European eye,
these colours appear too glaring. The lands seen from the bay are sandy
and poor.

{5} The first glimpse of the city of New York is by no means a distinct
one. The buildings are much obscured by the forest of masts in front of
them; and as the site of the town rises but gently inland, the houses
in front conceal, in a great measure, those in the rear, so that the
shipping and the numerous spires are the objects most distinctly seen.

Before entering the port we were twice boarded by agents from the
Newspaper offices. They inquired for British newspapers, and generally
for the news of Europe; they noted down the names of several of our
passengers, which they intended to publish in the papers of the
afternoon. There are no less than seven newspapers printed in New York
daily; the competition of these Journalists is keen, and their industry
seems to be great.

We have experienced much good treatment from Captain Stillman. Every
passenger is so sensible of this, that a committee of their number was
requested to make public testimony of their esteem for him.

We landed yesterday about noon, all in good health and spirits. During
the voyage, passengers have experienced no kind of sickness, except
that peculiarly incident to the sea.

This letter cannot come immediately into the hands of all my friends;
most of them, I hope, will hear that I am arrived in this place in good
health. Should you adopt any way of making this and any subsequent
communications generally known to them, it will be very gratifying
to me, and, besides, will relieve me of the labour of writing many
letters; a labour, dictated by the strongest ties of gratitude and
affection, but one which it is doubtful if I can accomplish to the
satisfaction of my own mind.


FOOTNOTES:

[1] General Richard Montgomery (1737-1775) was a native of Ireland,
and served with Wolfe at Quebec in 1759. At the outbreak of the
Revolutionary War he was appointed commander of the American forces in
the Northern Department, being killed in his heroic assault on Quebec,
December 31, 1775. Through the courtesy of the British general his
body was buried with the honors of war within the unconquered walls
of Quebec. Forty-three years later the remains were disinterred, in
compliance with a special act of the New York legislature, brought to
New York City and deposited with great solemnity beneath a monument
in front of St. Paul’s church (July 8, 1818). A full account of the
ceremony is contained in the New York _Daily Advertiser_ of that
date.--ED.




{6} LETTER II

 Observations on New York--Removal to Long Island--Miscellaneous
 Remarks--Return to New York--Farther Observations on the City.


  _New York, August 4, 1818._

On entering New York, I was struck with its appearance. Streets lined
with lofty trees, most of them the Lombardy poplar, which affords a
very agreeable shade in hot weather; indeed, they are so numerous, that
the new comer, when he looks before him, is apt to suppose himself
in the midst of a wood. The streets, with a few exceptions, are too
narrow, and are deficient in sewers. Many parts of the town prevent me
from thinking that it deserves the character of extreme cleanliness
bestowed upon it. The greater part of the houses are of brick, neatly
built; but, to eyes accustomed to towns of hewn stone, New York has, on
the whole, what (for want of a more descriptive word) may be called a
gingerbread appearance.

The markets here are amply supplied with fine vegetables, and an
immense variety of excellent fish, a great proportion of which are sold
alive. Beef and pork are good, but the mutton and veal that I have seen
are of inferior quality. Marketing is carried on more after the manner
in some English country towns. No servants, but masters, attend and
carry home the provisions.

Beggars do not abound here as in some countries of Europe. I am told
that every man who is {7} able to work can earn a dollar per day, and
that his board costs two or three dollars per week; thus it is in his
power to banish every appearance of poverty, and to save some money,
provided he is disposed to economy. Mechanics have good encouragement.
Joiners one and three-quarters, and masons two dollars a-day. They
usually pay three dollars, or upwards, a-week for their board.

Many of the necessaries of life are here purchased at high prices.
Woollen cloths and most articles of wearing apparel imported, pay
duties, varying, in different cases, from 25 to 33 per cent. In
transacting with the merchant and the tailor, farther American
enhancements may be calculated upon. Washing and dressing of shirts,
neckcloths, &c. costs a dollar and a half per dozen. Every thing that
an American does, must be liberally paid for. This tends to render
living dear, even where provisions are cheap.

Some imported articles, as silks, wines, foreign spirituous liquors,
teas, sugar, and coffee, are much cheaper than in Britain. The
difference of custom-house duties is the cause of this.

The condition of animals bespeak the great plenty of food that falls
to their share. The horses employed in removing goods to and from the
wharfs, and in stage coaches, are fat, and in high spirits. They are
not so rough-legged, so broad, or so strong-limbed, as the draught
horses of Britain; but they are better adapted for speed. Hogs, running
in the streets, are numerous, but they are not starvelings. I have
seen several of them that would yield upwards of 300 lbs. of pork
without special feeding. Speaking of hogs, I would mention by the way,
that they are allowed to run at large for the purpose of cleaning the
streets. An economical way of procuring scavengers, {8} but one that
leads to a commutation of nuisance rather than a final removal of it.

_July 12._ Last night the heat was excessive, and not accompanied with
a breath of wind. It was in vain that I thrust my head out at an open
window to be cooled. The effluvia arising from the streets is, in a
great measure, occasioned by a high temperature. I imagine that a
copious evolution of phosphorized hydrogen gas goes on in such weather.
I could not sleep till three or four o’clock. This morning I heard that
some people who had suffered from the heat and stillness of the air,
had stretched themselves on carpets, or sat by open room doors, or in
passages. Nights so very oppressive are said to occur rarely. In high
and inland parts of the country they do not occur at all.

This is not the most proper season of the year for Europeans arriving
here. Yesterday and to-day the heat has been excessive, the thermometer
in the shade stood at 97¹⁄₂°. In such a degree of heat it is imprudent
to take much exercise. The temperature of the human body being lower
than that of the air, the former is deprived of the cooling process
usually produced by evaporation. Should the heat of the blood be
increased in such a case, fever commences. We had an example of this,
in a young man, one of the emigrants on board the Glenthorn, who
exerted himself too much in getting baggage ashore. He was this day
removed to Brooklyn, a high-lying village on Long Island, about a mile
from New York. Transitions from heat to cold are, perhaps, still more
dangerous; of late, eleven persons have died in the city by drinking
cold water. Several of them were strangers newly landed. Water should
not be drunk immediately from the {9} well, but should be allowed
previously to stand for a few minutes in the air. It should be taken in
small mouthfuls, and these heated in the mouth for two or three seconds
before swallowing. Precautions of this kind ought to be strictly
attended to, while heated by exercise or the sun’s rays. Spirits are
often mixed with water, to prevent the injurious effects of the latter.
This corrective, however much extolled, ought to be taken in very
small quantities. Here, as in Britain, there are many who resort to
spirituous liquors as the sovereign medicine, both in hot and in cold
weather.

Strangers lodge in boarding houses, and are charged from three dollars
to twenty a-week. I have got lodgings in a good one, where I find
interesting company. Previous to our meals a servant rings a small
hand-bell, summoning every lodger to the public room, where we all eat
together. A polite, well-dressed, hostess presides.

Servants are not here so attentive to their duty as elsewhere; many of
them are free blacks, slow in their motions, and often treating the
most reasonable commands with neglect. _Master_ is not a word in the
vocabulary of hired people. _Bos_, a Dutch one of similar import, is
substituted.[2] The former is used by Negroes, and is by free people
considered as synonymous with slave-keeper.

This afternoon much thunder was heard. After twilight the lightning
flashed incessantly, so that the illumination was almost permanent.
Thunder storms in America are more frequent, more severe, and often
accompanied with greater rains than in Europe. A respectable gentleman
of Delaware county, in this State, told me, that during a thunder
storm there, he laid his watch on the table, and found that an hour
and forty-eight minutes elapsed {10} without one cessation of sound.
He thinks it probable that the peal lasted about two hours, as a few
minutes must have passed before the idea of noting the time suggested
itself.

_July 13._ This evening, after dark, I was surprised to see a large
object standing in the centre of one of the principal streets; on
approaching it, I discovered that it was a frame-house, with a wheel
affixed to each corner. Its length was about twenty-two feet, breadth
about sixteen feet, and two stories high. I am just told that much
larger buildings than this are often dragged off by horses, with their
roofs, floors, plaster, doors, and windows, entire; furniture sometimes
included. This sort of removal happens at the expiry of leases of small
lots, where the occupier is not bound to leave the buildings.

_July 16._ For two days past, the skin of my face has been spotted,
accompanied with blotches, and with partial swelling. This is called
the prickly heat, from the pungent feeling that attends it. A medical
gentleman has told me, that this has been occasioned by a sudden
cooling, which has put a stop to perspiration. He congratulated me
on having escaped a fever, prescribed a hot bath, and subsequent
sea-bathing. I am about to set out for Long Island, in obedience to the
latter part of the Doctor’s prescription.

_Afternoon._ Arrived at New Utrecht, a village near the south-western
extremity of Long Island.[3] On leaving New York, I crossed the ferry
to Brooklyn, by a steam-boat of singular construction: this vessel
is composed of two hulls, at a little distance from, and parallel
to, one another; they are connected by a deck common to both. The
water-wheel, turned by a steam-engine, is placed between {11} the keels
of the boats. There is a rudder at each end, so that she can cross and
re-cross, without putting about.

A stage coach runs from Brooklyn to New Utrecht. The distance is nine
miles; and the fare for one person, half a dollar. This coach, like the
other public ones of the country, has no glass windows in the front or
the sides of it, these parts are furnished with curtains, which are
let down in bad weather. The coach is long, containing four seats that
run across; and travellers sit with their faces forward, as in the pews
of a church.

I have agreed to stop a few days at New Utrecht. My host is an
intelligent man, obliging, but not fawning; he and his wife take the
principal drudgery of the house upon themselves, as the slaves are
extremely slow in the execution of their work. Sometimes the landlord
presides at the head of the table, and at other times he acts as
servant. At dinner we were joined by the coach-driver who brought us
from Brooklyn; he is very unlike the drivers of some other coaches,
is well dressed, active, and attentive to his business, by no means
obsequious, answers every question with propriety, and without
embarrassment. He does not depend on the gratuities of travellers for
his wages. That system, which so universally prevails in Britain, is
unknown here.

At the inn there were three boarders, all Scotsmen. One of them, a
young gentleman from Edinburgh, who was confined to bed by a broken
thigh bone, occasioned by a horse running away with a gig, from which
he fell while attempting to disengage himself; he was occasionally
attended by a young lady, whose visits were frequent, although she
lived at the distance of ten miles. The people of the neighbourhood
were also very attentive to this {12} person, often calling for him;
and several of the young men sat with him all night by rotation. It was
pleasing to see so creditable a display of the benevolent affections.

The good people here are the descendants of the original Dutch
settlers. They are placed in comfortable circumstances, their style
of living somewhat resembling that of farmers in the more fertile and
improved parts of Scotland. If the situations of farmers in the two
countries were compared, it would appear that the advantage of the Long
Islanders consists in a climate highly conducive to vegetation, their
freedom from rent, being owners of the soil, and the total absence of
any heavy taxes; and that their comparative disadvantage is, the want
of such active domestic and agricultural servants as the farmer of the
other country employs.

Mr. Cobbett[4] is now farming about nine miles from this place. His
people (it is said) could not bear the opprobrious name _servant_, and,
with the exception of one person, left him.[5]

The fishermen here drag ashore many fishes in their seines. Without
other evidence than the vast quantities of smaller ones left on the
shore, the abundant supply of the New York market might be inferred. I
bathe twice a-day, on the spot where General Howe first effected the
landing of his army.[6] A farmer very obligingly gives me the key of
his fishing house on the beach, that I may dress and undress in it.
The farmers here catch great quantities of fish, with which they manure
their land.

There are still a considerable number of slaves in Long Island; they
are treated with a degree of {13} humanity that slaves in some other
parts of the world never experience; they are well fed, and the
whip is very seldom resorted to. Notwithstanding their comparative
advantages, they detest the unnatural yoke, and frequently run off.
It often happens that the master neither pursues nor inquires after
the fugitive. What becomes of the self-emancipated is not here well
understood. I have heard that many of them get to Boston, or some other
of the northern ports, from whence they are carried to the Southern
States, sold, and placed under a harsher treatment.

A great part of the slaves of the State of New York are to be
emancipated in the year 1827.[7] It is difficult to predict the
consequences of this liberation. It is to be feared that people
who have been compelled to work, will, of their own choice, become
banditti, rather than adopt industrious habits. Arrangements must
necessarily be made before the arrival of this revolution; but many
satisfy themselves by saying, that the legislature will devise some
plan that will enable them to get over the difficulty. Some suggest
that the Negroes shall be returned to Africa. On this measure, the
African Association, so much talked of in America, proceeds.[8]
The expense of transporting, settling, supporting, and governing
a new colony, must be immense. The design is as benevolent as the
difficulties to be encountered are great. The support it meets with in
slave-keeping states, looks like a pledge of sincerity, and an omen
that forebodes success to the undertaking.

{14} The project of removing blacks to the back-woods of America
seems to be altogether objectionable. It would be difficult, if not
impossible, to prevent their return from exile; their previous habits
and disposition render them ill-calculated to the work of subduing the
forests. Besides, they would commit depredations on the neighboring
settlers, and on the Indian people.

Long Island being composed of alluvial soil, surrounded by a high
beach, its surface is necessarily what is called a table land: for the
most part the surface is somewhat flat, the soil is dry, and at this
season, without streams of water. Near the surface I have observed
a substratum that is intermixed with clay. If a part of this was
raised above the ground, it would be made to approach to a loam, more
productive, and less liable to be injured by drought, than the present
sandy coating that covers the surface. A trenching, performed by the
spade or by the plough, would no doubt produce the good effect.

A labourer in Long Island receives half a dollar a-day, with his board,
and a dollar in harvest.

The weather, which is said to be hotter at present than it has been
for several years, begins to scorch the surface of the ground. The
stubble from which the hay has recently been removed, retains the
appearance of a newly mown field; pasture grass is withering. In some
fields a rank crop of weeds continues green; amongst these the cattle
are straying nearly two feet deep, but are in reality almost starving;
water is drawn from deep wells, and served out to them in rather too
small quantities. The cows are small, as may be expected. Good crops of
wheat, rye, and Indian corn, are raised. These require manure. Indian
corn is considered a good crop, when at the rate {15} of 40 bushels
per acre. Oats do not ripen well from the excessive heat, and are used
only for the feed of horses. Potatoes are small; their tops grow high
and slender, as when shaded by trees in your country; their leaves are
small and shrivelled. The greatest luxuriance to be met with in Long
Island is in the orchards, the branches of apple and pear trees are
bent down, and not unfrequently broken by the weight of the fruit.
Peach trees were lately productive, but are now falling into decay. I
have met with no one able to assign the cause. The woods are thriving,
but few of the trees are large; they are evidently a new growth, and
not contemporary with the thick trunks that opposed the first settlers.
The owners frequently spare their own timber, and purchase from other
parts of the State, or from New Jersey. In consequence of paying for
timber and carriage, building in Long Island is rendered more expensive
than in more late settlements.

It is not easy to state the price of land in Long Island, as much of
it has descended from father to son, from the first settlement; and
sales have been rare. A farm within ten miles of New York would perhaps
sell at 140 or 150 dollars (from L.31, 10s. to L.33, 15s.) per acre.
The practice of renting land is by shares, the occupier paying to the
proprietor one half of the actual price of the produce, the former
bearing the risk and trouble of collecting the money.

The fences are of wood. The figure is a representation of the railing
commonly adopted here.

{16} A fence of this sort, costs about a dollar for every ten yards
in length. Where the posts are of cedar, and the rails of chesnut,
the erection, it is said, may stand about fifty years. I examined one
reported to be thirty years old, and found it to be so strong, that
it may be expected still to last for years to come. There are neither
hedges nor stone fences to be seen in this neighbourhood.

[Illustration]

The crops, as in most parts of America, are cut down by what is called
the Cradle-scythe. I went into a field where a Negro was reaping wheat
with this sort of implement, and observed that about an English acre
was cut down. On making inquiry, it appeared that he had been engaged
about six hours in the work. The following dialogue ensued:

“You work very hard?”

“No Sir, I can do much more in the time, _but that of no use_.”

“You are not free then?”

“No Sir, I a slave, I longs to Jacob Van ----, there,” (pointing to the
farm house.)

“But you black people are very well treated here?”

“Oh yes, Sir, master very good to me, give me every thing to eat he eat
self, but no Sunday clothes.”

“You may live happier than some poor free people?”

“That may be true, Sir, but put bird in cage, give him plenty to eat,
still he fly away.”

I delay giving a description of the cradle-scythe, as I doubt if the
one that I have just seen is of the best construction.

After the crop is cut, the swath is collected by the hand, and tied
into sheaves; a small quantity of stalks still remain scattered over
the surface, {17} these are commonly collected by the hand-rake. To
facilitate the latter part of the process, a horse rake has been
recently invented; of which the following figure is a representation.

[Illustration]

AB is a beam about six inches square, and about twelve feet long. CD
is an upright rail that prevents the stalks accumulated by the machine
from falling over the beam AB, and so left behind. EF, _ef_, are two
supports to the rail, which also serve as handles for steering, and
occasionally upsetting the machine. ABHG is a tire of wooden teeth,
one and a half inches diameter, and about six inches distant from one
another. These teeth are sharpened at their extremities, and skim along
the ground with their points forward; raising up and collecting the
stalks. IK are trees to which the horses are yoked. The trees are
attached to the beam AB, by the rope BLA.

{18} The field in which I saw the horse rake used is flat and not
ridged; consequently the straight beam operated very well. To adapt a
beam to ridges, it would only be necessary to construct it with two
joints or hinges; one at each side of the handles, and to connect the
central part of the beam by a rope with the point of attachment L.
Otherwise, the implement may be moved across the ridges.

Four wheeled waggons are the vehicles used in carrying home the crops,
carrying manure into the fields, and produce to market. They are drawn
by two horses, which trot, whether loaded or not. Small one-horse
waggons are also used, they are neat, and are furnished with a seat for
conveying families to church, and elsewhere. Many of the farmers who
own but small properties, keep one horse gigs. Ladies drive dexterously.

The practice of housing the crops, and the ancient one of treading
them out by the feet of horses, shew that the Long Islanders have
yet something to learn in the way of dispatching their agricultural
business.

The high price of land prevents emigrants from settling here. The near
neighbourhood of a market, and the salubrity derived from dry land,
together with sea breezes, might, notwithstanding, form sufficient
inducements to many, who would pursue their immediate advantage; but
those who look forward to the future prospects of a family, commonly
prefer some part of the back country.


_July 24._ Saw the works in progress at Fort Diamond.[9] This is a
large battery raised on a shoal in the narrows, about 200 yards off
the western point of Long Island; _most of the workmen are British_.

{19} Crossed the Narrows to Staten Island. The fortifications are
extensive and commanding. The garrison consists of _one man_!

_25._ Left New Utrecht, where a residence of nine days has completely
cured my blotched face. The climate is delightful, and I have
entertained a very favourable opinion of the people.

The emigrant who was removed sick to Brooklyn, is dead; thus by far
the finest young man of our party, has fallen the first victim to the
climate: twenty-two years of age, of a mild and cheerful disposition,
and of a manly figure, and who had gained our universal esteem. Of a
family consisting of six persons, he was the only one who was able to
endure the fatigues of clearing away the forests. The feelings of the
survivors are deeply wounded, and the tender attachment that pledged
his early return to Scotland is blasted.

I returned to New York, and shall make some more remarks on the city.
The population, at the census of 1816, was 100,619, of which 6985 were
aliens, 9774 free people of colour, and 617 slaves. It is expected that
the enumeration of 1820 will disclose a vast increase.

Literature does not stand on such a broad basis here as in Europe.
Printing, particularly of newspapers, is carried on to a considerable
extent: but the style of many communications and advertisements
which appear in them, shews that the _public_ are not far advanced
in taste. Particular pieces are elegant. Many English publications
are reprinted, frequently with the addition of some introduction,
notes, or an appendix. For the additional matter a patent is procured,
which I suppose has generally the practical effect of securing an
exclusive privilege for the whole work. Some of Lord Byron’s latest
productions, the Memoirs of {20} the Fudge Family,[10] and the Brownie
of Bodsbeck,[11] are exhibited in the windows of the principal
booksellers. When I left Edinburgh the last mentioned book was not
published.

The Kaleidoscope of Dr. Brewster is here fabricated in a rude style,
and in quantities so great, that it is given as a plaything to
children.[12] An artist informed me that a journeyman of his proposes
to take a patent for an improvement he had made on it.

The public museum in this city is a recent collection. An Indian
mummy from the great saltpetre cave in Kentucky, a bear from Warwick
mountains, about sixty miles north of this place, which weighed 700
pounds, and an immensely large turtle, are as yet the most interesting
objects.

The town hall is a splendid building. Lightness, and an apparent want
of solidity in its parts, deprive it in some measure of the august
effect essential to sublime grandeur. The front and columns are made
of white marble of a foliated texture. The interior staircase is
both large and magnificent. It is circular, and furnished with two
elegant flights of steps that wind in contrary directions, so that the
one crosses the other alternately. Upon the whole, it displays that
elegance which becomes an edifice devoted to the administration of
justice.

When I visited the Court of Sessions, the judge on the bench appeared
a plain active-looking gentleman, not distinguished by any robes of
office. The business on hand was the taking of evidence in the case of
a man who had left a vault open during the night. A person passing in
the street happened to fall into the chasm, and raised an action of
damages, on the ground that he had received bodily hurt. The questions
put were numerous {21} and minute, the witnesses, notwithstanding, went
on in giving lengthened details, embracing particulars not asked, and
foreign to the subject. They seemed in no respect embarrassed by the
dignity of the court. The whole of the witnesses were present, and each
heard the examinations which preceded his own.

The Washington, a new ship of war, mounting 96 guns, is much visited
at present.[13] The seamen are a party of stout healthy looking men,
dressed in striped cottons, very suitable to the present hot weather,
and cleanly in the extreme. The decoration, cleanliness of the ship,
and the order that prevailed aboard, can scarcely be surpassed.
Diffident, however, as I am in forming an opinion on any naval affair,
I cannot avoid the impression that a vessel of such strength, and with
such a crew of freemen, must be an overmatch for any other vessel
constructed and manned as European ships of war were wont to be.

The steam-frigate is a novelty in naval architecture. The vessel
is bomb-proof, impelled by a powerful steam-engine; is said to be
furnished with apparatus for heating ball, for throwing hot water, for
moving a sort of arms to prevent boarding, and to carry submarine guns
of one hundred pounds shot.[14]

The steam-boat, Chancellor Livingstone, is the largest and finest
vessel of the kind perhaps ever built; she is 526 tons burden, length
165 feet, and breadth 50 feet. The power of the engine is estimated
as being equal to that of eighty horses. The boiler is of copper, and
weighs twenty tons. The cabin unites something like the horizontal
dimensions of a church, and a degree of elegance not exceeded by
any floating apartment. The Chancellor sails between New York and
Albany.[15]

{22} _August 3._ The theatre has some degree of resemblance in its plan
to that at Edinburgh, and is attended by a genteelly-dressed audience.
To-night the celebrated Mr. Incledon completed his engagement.[16] He
was highly applauded. The song, “Scots wha hae wi’ Wallace bled,” was
alike cheered by Scots and Americans.

During this season of the year, most people wear light cotton clothes;
the jacket is in many cases striped, and the pantaloons of Indian
nankin. A broad-brimmed straw-hat is commonly used, to prevent the
face from being scorched by the rays of the sun. Draymen, and other
labouring people, wear a sort of frock or hunting shirt of tow-cloth,
that hangs down to the knees. A tall, thin, swarthy-countenanced man,
with a frock, surmounted by a broad straw hat, is a figure somewhat
new to the Briton.

One of the greatest inconsistencies among a people professing liberty
and equality, is the degradation imposed on people of colour. In the
church of the most popular preacher of New York, I looked in vain for
a black face. There is a congregation of blacks in town, who have a
preacher of the same colour, where (it is said) a white man would be
equally singular. Blacks are not admitted into the public baths; and,
at some places of amusement the hand-bills have a note of this kind,
N.B. “A place is provided for people of colour.” I do not recollect of
having seen or heard of a black person who is in any degree eminent in
society, or who has acquired reputation in any mechanical or mercantile
business. This depression appears to be produced partly by the aversion
with which the white face looks on the black one, and partly by
bad education and habits. Something more than mere emancipation is
required, a moral change, {23} affecting both the black and the white,
must take place, before the condition of the negro can be completely
ameliorated.

The churches of New York are fifty-three in number, and are occupied by
seventeen religious sectaries. None of these are peculiarly privileged
by law, and none denied the common protection of citizens.

_August 4._ Now when about to leave New York, I feel a pleasure in
stating my conviction of the civilization and moral honesty of the
people. In the former respect, they may exult in any comparison with
the mass of many European cities. And in regard to the latter, I have
heard of no recent instance of housebreaking or riot. In hot weather,
people leave their windows open during the night, and street doors
are seldom closed during the whole of the evening; the inhabitants
not thinking their hats and umbrellas in much danger. Such traits are
perfectly unequivocal.


FOOTNOTES:

[2] From the Dutch _Baas_, meaning master.--ED.

[3] New Utrecht was in Kings County, New York, seven miles from New
York City.--ED.

[4] William Cobbett, a publicist known both in America and England,
was born on a farm in Surrey, March, 1762. After serving for several
years in the English army, he resigned and (1792) came to Philadelphia.
Here, under the name of “Peter Porcupine,” he advocated the cause of
the Federalists. Returning to London in 1800, he founded the _Weekly
Political Register_. His influence with the workingmen was so great
that the English government became alarmed, and he found it prudent to
spend two more years in America (1817-19). He published his experiences
as a Long Island farmer (1818), under the title _A Year’s Residence in
the United States of America_. Vigorously opposing the plans of Morris
Birkbeck and others to bring over colonies of British emigrants to the
United States, his attacks and the replies that followed brought on a
journalistic controversy which lasted until about 1825. (See volumes
x, xi, and xii of our series.) Upon his return to England, he was
elected to parliament as a Liberal in 1832, and served until his death
(1835).--ED.

[5] This person was English.--FLINT.

[6] Admiral Lord Richard Howe, British general in the Revolutionary
War, left Halifax with his fleet June 11, 1776, to effect a union with
General Clinton at New York. He arrived at Sandy Hook June 29, and July
2 took possession of Staten Island.--ED.

[7] By act of legislation, 31st March, 1817, “Every Negro, Mulatto,
or Mustee, within this State, born before the 4th day of July, 1799,
shall, from and after the 4th day of July, 1827, be free.”--FLINT.

[8] The American Society for the Colonization of the Free People of
Color of the United States, was organized at Washington, December,
1816. It rapidly gained favor, both North and South, and by February,
1820, sufficient money had been subscribed to send the first colony to
Liberia. But the free negroes disliked it; the colonists suffered great
hardships in Liberia; and the abolitionists soon opposed the project.
William Lloyd Garrison began to denounce the Society in 1829, and
thereafter it declined steadily in importance.--ED.

[9] Fort Diamond, later renamed Fort Lafayette, was the largest of the
forts planned in 1812 for the defense of New York harbor. It became
famous as a political state prison during the War of Secession, and was
then protected by seventy-five heavy mounted guns.--ED.

[10] A series of metrical epistles purporting to be written in Paris by
Thomas Moore.--ED.

[11] “The Brownie of Blednoch,” a folk-lore ballad, is the best known
of William Nicholson’s poems. He was a Galloway peddler (1782-1849),
who composed verses as he travelled from town to town.--ED.

[12] Sir David Brewster (1781-1868), experimental philosopher and
editor of the _Edinburgh Encyclopedia_, invented the kaleidoscope about
1816. Throughout these letters, Flint portrays large acquaintance with
the writings of the more noted of his fellow-countrymen.--ED.

[13] The “Washington” was built at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, in 1814,
being the second ship of seventy-four guns (not ninety-six, as Flint
states) launched for the United States navy. She was the flagship of
Commodore Chauncey in the Mediterranean, from 1816 to 1818. In 1843 she
was broken up in New York harbor.--ED.

[14] This was the “Fulton,” the first steamship in the American navy.
Robert Fulton directed her construction, and she made her trial trip
June 1, 1815, a few months after his death. Her naval service was
unimportant. While employed as a receiving-ship at the Brooklyn docks
she blew up, June, 1829.--ED.

[15] The “Chancellor Livingstone,” built under Fulton’s direction, and
named in honor of his friend and patron, was completed in 1816. She
was one hundred and twenty-five tons larger than any boat then on the
Hudson. Her average speed was eight and a half miles an hour. In 1832
she was put on the route between Boston and Portland, being broken up
at Portland two years later.--ED.

[16] Benjamin Charles Incledon (1764-1826), a famous English
vocalist.--ED.




LETTER III

 Journey from New York to Philadelphia--Remarks on the country
 passed through--Notices of companions--Their conversation by the
 way--Observations on Philadelphia--Institutions--Manufactures--People.


  _Philadelphia, December 19, 1818._

This letter will give you the details of my journey from New York to
Philadelphia, and some particulars with regard to the latter city.[17]

{24} _August 5._ Got aboard of the Olive-Branch steam-boat for New
Brunswick. This is a large vessel, wrought by an engine of forty-five
horses’ power. She may at once be pronounced elegant and commodious.
The passengers dine on board.

In a company so large, the traveller has it in his power to select
the person with whom he would enter into conversation. The individual
I fell in with, on this occasion, was a mercantile gentleman from
England. He seemed to me a man of a good disposition, and one who
possessed considerable knowledge of the principal towns, and of the
different ways of transacting business in the United States. The
American character, according to his report, is by no means a good one.
He expressed himself as completely tired of the country, and proposed
returning to England. He told me that he had met with considerable
losses by villanous insolvencies. His account, instead of convincing
me that the Americans were sinners above all others, just shewed me
that he was a good-natured, credulous man, and that he had fallen into
the hands of several artful rogues; a class, it would seem, not wanting
in America.

The land on both sides of the strait, between Staten Island and the
main land, is light and sandy, in some spots almost sterile. People in
boats are busy with long wooden tongs, resembling forceps, taking up
clams from the bottom, in six or seven feet of water.

The land on both margins of the Raritan is very low and flat, covered
with a rank growth of reeds. These are cut for the cattle, and form a
coarse but a very bulky crop. The swamps, being liable to inundation,
are not made to yield any other herbage than their spontaneous produce.

{25} About four miles below New Brunswick, the red sandstone is met
with. It is the first rock toward the coast, the interval being high
alluvial land, containing vegetables and the bones of marine animals of
tribes still existing; facts that establish without a doubt that the
ocean has receded.

From New Brunswick to Trenton, travellers are conveyed by four-horse
coaches. Six of these wait the arrival of the steam-boat. In one of
these I took my seat, and found that only two gentlemen were to be
along with me; one of them an American who had travelled in Britain,
and the other an Englishman, who had just been out on an extensive tour
in the United States. Both appear men of talent and education; the one
a Virginian lawyer, and the other a person well acquainted with the
state of science and manufacture in his own country; they are equally
devoted to the representative form of government. Their only difference
of opinion arose from drawing a comparison between the national
characters of the two countries. The American claimed the superiority,
_in toto_, while the Englishman asserted the higher excellence of the
literary, the scientific, and the mechanical attainments of Britain;
but, at the same time admitted, with apparent candour, the superior
dexterity of Americans in traffic, and that, taken in a body, they
are without some of the ruder qualities of John Bull. Thus, in one
day, I have heard two intelligent Englishmen discuss the character
of the American people, and each draw opposite conclusions: a fact,
which proves how cautious we ought to be in forming an estimate of a
community; as we are in continual danger of judging of the great stock
from the small, and it may happen that an unfair sample may come within
the narrow limits of a single person’s observation.

{26} The land between New Brunswick and Princeton is chiefly of a poor
sand. The road is composed of the same material, with plank bridges
over ravines, where most of the streams are now dried up. The woods, to
a Briton, seem more remarkable for their height, than for the diameter
of the trees. The stems, even by the road side, where many are felled,
stand closely together, and their tops form a continued canopy, that
sheds a gloom over the surface of the ground. When proximity to the two
greatest cities in the Union is considered, it seems surprising that
the arm of man has effected so little. The farms by the road side are
neither numerous, nor are the cleared patches large. The passenger has
no way of knowing how the country is peopled or improved beyond the
first clearing; and where no opening occurs, he cannot see the light
more than about 200 yards into the woods. Rail fences, however, and
cattle amongst the trees, indicate that the whole is appropriated.

The cows are small, and of little value; and the few sheep which
I have seen, are long-legged and thin, perhaps the worst breed in
existence.

Princeton College is a large brick house, situated in a grass field.
The edifice has a retired, if not a gloomy appearance. It was here that
Dr. Witherspoon,[18] the author of the “Characteristics of Scottish
Clergy,” found an asylum, and the means of prosecuting useful labours.
By the way side stands a row of very large weeping willows, that are
highly ornamental to this small town. Their long slender twigs hang
down almost perpendicularly, and wave with every wind, displaying, as
it were, a sort of vegetable drapery.

From Princeton onward, the land is much better than that observed
to the north, and the {27} surface is finely diversified, but dusk
prevented me from seeing a part of the country next to Trenton.

The arrival of six four-horse coaches produced considerable stir in
the Inn at Trenton. No sooner had the passengers entered, than a pile
of trunks and portmanteaus was reared in the bar-room, that would make
a good figure in the warehouse of a wholesale merchant. The party at
supper was very large. There being three lines of conveyance between
New York and Philadelphia, the aggregate of the intercourse must be
great. Betwixt New Brunswick and this place, a distance of twenty-five
miles, we have not seen a single pedestrian. The heat of the weather
may in some measure account for this.

Trenton is beautifully situated at the head of the tide water of the
river Delaware. The orchards are luxuriant, and the pasture grounds
richer than any that I have hitherto seen in the country.

_August 6._ Trenton is celebrated by one of the most dexterous feats
of generalship on record. I shall take the liberty of stating some
particulars of the affair. On the 1st of January, 1777, the term of
enlistment amongst the American troops expired, and that day brought on
a dissolution of the best part of the army. General Howe, aware of the
occurrence, pressed forward on the 2d, with an army vastly superior.
The head of their column arrived at Trenton about four o’clock, and
attempted to cross Sanpink creek, which runs through the town, but
finding the fords guarded, halted and kindled their fires. The American
army was drawn up on the other side of the creek. In this situation the
latter remained till dark, cannonading the enemy, and receiving the
fire of their field pieces.

{28} Washington having discovered that the enemy designed to surround
his little army, ordered the baggage to be removed after dark. At
twelve o’clock, having renewed his fires, he decamped with his army,
unperceived by the enemy, and marched against Princeton by a circuitous
route, where he arrived by the rising of the sun, defeated the troops
there, and captured their stores.[19]

The Delaware is a delightful river, with many magnificent windings.
The convex shore of one extensive curve, is so imposing, that it is
called Point-no-Point, an apparent cape being always in sight, but
which recedes as the observer advances. The grounds adjacent to the
river are flat, and covered with a rich verdure; but the beach is of a
height sufficient to prevent a person from seeing far inland from the
river. Many large farm houses are to be seen, with extensive orchards,
and beautiful weeping willows adjoining. The last form large spreading
masses without any erect or principal top, the main or leading branches
rear themselves upwards, after acquiring a considerable degree of
strength; and the shoots immediately younger, are elegantly bent, as if
in the act of getting erect; while the youngest of all are completely
pendulous. The whole is singularly picturesque.

On approaching Philadelphia, I felt disappointed in seeing the shipping
so very inferior to that at New York; and the houses fronting the river
are old and irregularly placed, so that the idea of a port declining in
trade immediately occurred.

Philadelphia is situated between the rivers Delaware {29} and
Schuylkill. The streets are laid off agreeably to the cardinal points,
and cross one another at right angles, the principal ones running in
the east and west direction, crossing the neck of land between the two
rivers.

The streets, as at New York, are lined with trees; they are cleaner
kept, and are wider, and more regular, so that gaseous exhalations are
much less felt in them than in the other city. Most of the houses are
of brick, and many of them have the doors and windows surrounded by
white marble. Several public edifices are built of that material.

_August 7._ The general aspect of the city is more pleasant, and a
freer circulation of air is felt than in New York; of course the
natural inference is that Philadelphia must be the more salubrious of
the two. Dr. Mease, of the American Philosophical Society, has deduced
the same conclusion from the bills of mortality.[20] The daily average
of deaths being 5²⁄₃ in this place, and 6¹⁄₃ at New York. At the
time this computation was made, the population of Philadelphia was the
greater of the two, consequently something more is to be allowed in
favour of the relative healthfulness of Philadelphia.

The doctor has also compared the mortalities of Philadelphia and
Liverpool, and it appears that the deaths in the former city are, to
those in the latter, as 33 to 50. The comparison was made between the
number of deaths in 1810 for Philadelphia, and on another year for
Liverpool. This must have been occasioned from a want of data applying
to the same year in both places. My very short acquaintance with the
doctor gives me the utmost confidence in his candour, and in the
accuracy of his calculations.

{30} It is not to be kept out of view, that the mortality in
Philadelphia is considerably greater in summer than in winter, the
deaths in August, for example, may be fairly stated at twice the number
in December. This fact, not to mention the epidemical diseases with
which Philadelphia is sometimes visited, must give a decided preference
to Liverpool.

The religious sects of Philadelphia are eighteen in number; they
have thirty-four places of worship. The whole may be exhibited thus:
Swedish, three churches; Quakers, three; Free Quakers, one; Episcopal,
three; Baptist, one; Presbyterian, two; Catholic, four; German
Lutheran, two; German Calvinist, two; Associate Reformed Church, one;
Moravians, one; Associate Church, (Antiburghers,) one; Presbyterian
Covenanters, one; Methodists, four, (two for whites and two for
blacks;) Universalists, one; Unitarians, one; Independents, one; Jewish
Synagogues, two.

There are four state law courts in the city; four Banks, and eleven
Insurance offices.

The other institutions would be too tedious to enumerate separately,
probably the following includes most of them. Thirteen charitable
institutions, eight free school societies, three patriotic societies,
about twenty mutual benefit societies, five associations for the relief
of foreigners and their descendants, seven literary institutions,
three libraries, the American Philosophical Society,[21] the Society
of Artists, the Pennsylvanian Academy of Fine Arts, and a museum of
natural history.[22]

The American Philosophical Society meets frequently, and is well
attended. When I visited the institution, three of the foreign
ministers were {31} present. Professor Cooper[23] read very interesting
papers on the bilious fever, on a new mordant to be used in dyeing, and
on a new test for detecting arsenic where administered as a poison.
There is still zeal and talent in the association once distinguished by
a Franklin and a Rittenhouse.[24]

The Franklean library contains about 24,000 volumes; almost every
scientific work of merit may be seen. Strangers are allowed to read
and even to write in the great hall. On leaving a small deposit they
may carry books out of the library. The building belongs to the
institution, and has a herculean bust of the founder over the entrance;
and the following lines, by Alexander Wilson[25] the ornithologist,
hang in a frame in the great room.

    “Ye who delight through learning’s paths to roam,
    Who deign to enter this devoted dome;
    By silent awe and contemplation led,
    Survey these wonders of the illustrious dead!
    The lights of every age--of every clime,
    The fruits of science, and the spoils of time,
    Stand here arranged, obedient to your nod;
    Here feast with sages, and give thanks to God.
    Next thanks to him; that venerable sage,
    His country’s boast,--the glory of the age!
    Immortal Franklin, whose unwearied mind,
    Still sought out every good for all mankind;
    Search’d every science, studious still to know,
    To make men virtuous, and to keep them so--
    Living, he reared with generous friends this scene;
    And dead, still stands without to welcome in.”

The Atheneum is another excellent institution.[26] Here a great number
of American and foreign newspapers are read, and there is also a
collection of the reviews, periodical publications, and scientific
journals, of Britain and America. Strangers are introduced by the
subscribers.

The United British Emigrant Society meets frequently, and its business
in conducted with zeal{32} and ability. A book is kept open, in which
are inserted notices of labourers, &c. &c. wanted, with the names and
residences of the persons to whom they are to apply. On looking over
this record, I observed that many of the situations offered were in the
western country. Although the members of this society merit the utmost
credit for their benevolent exertions, the most cautious strangers will
always hesitate to undertake long journies, incurring a great expense,
the risk of meeting only with a trifling employment, and that of
cheapening their labour by the sacrifices which they make. Artifices
of this kind are not to be imputed to the society.

The museum contains a considerable collection of objects; and among the
rest a skeleton of an entire mammoth. Around the upper part of the wall
are arranged the portraits of several hundreds of the personages who
have distinguished themselves in the revolution, or in the legislature
of America. The design is praiseworthy, but the execution of the
pictures is bad.

The state prison does honour to the jurisprudence of the country. The
culprit is not made a burden on the community, but is put to work,
and the first of his earnings applied to his support, a part of the
remainder is given to him at his dismissal; by this means he is not
under the necessity of resorting immediately to robbery or theft.
Habits of industry are acquired, and trades learned, by persons who
previously were pests to society. The strict order, and even silence,
that is maintained in the establishment, is conceived to be the
peculiarity that has produced the effects that distinguish it above
every institution of the kind. The provisions given to the inmates are
said to be plentiful and good, though furnished at the low rate of {33}
fourteen cents, or about seven-pence-half-penny English, per day.

Philadelphia does not abound in manufacturing establishments. The
predominance of British goods has shut up many workshops that were
employed during the late war. Paper is manufactured in great quantities
in Pennsylvania. Founderies for coarse cast iron articles are numerous.
In town there are two manufactories of lead shot. Printing is carried
on to a considerable extent, and executed in a superb style. It is said
that one of the late Edinburgh novels was here set up in types in one
day. The quarto edition of Joel Barlow’s Columbiad is an unrivalled
specimen of printing. The types were cast by Messrs. Binnie and
Ronaldsons, who, by their skill and individual exertions, have saved
the United States from importing these essential literary implements.
Mr. Melish’s[27] geographical establishment, is another prominent
concern. He is continually embodying the most recent government surveys
of the interior, into the general maps of the country. At Lehigh Falls,
on the Schuylkill, there is a mill for cutting brads, which produces no
less than two hundred in a minute. Philadelphia is in various respects
well adapted to manufacture; if the facilities which it presents for
its advancement are neglected, the city must decline, as the trade of
New York and Baltimore is making rapid progress. The new road from the
latter city to the Ohio,[28] and the extension of carriage, by steam
boats, through the Mississippi and the Ohio, are all circumstances
which tend to supersede Philadelphia as a market and as a thoroughfare.

At present, vast quantities of English goods are selling by auction
in the ports of the United States. New York is the chief mart in this
way. Merchants from the country, attend sometimes these {34} sales for
many days, and even for weeks together. Public sales, and the present
low prices, are very injurious to the merchants and manufacturers of
England.

Probably the market of Philadelphia displays the greatest quantity
of fruits and vegetables in the world. Boat loads are brought by the
Delaware, and numerous waggons come loaded from the interior. Peaches,
apples, pears, melons, cucumbers, pine apples, sweet potatoes, onions,
&c. are plentiful beyond example.

The cleanliness and the civil address of persons who vend provisions in
the market, are truly gratifying: if a speck is to be seen on the white
apron of the butcher, it may be inferred that it came there on the same
morning. Girls arrive on horseback, or driving light waggons, to sell
vegetables, or the produce of the dairy. Many of these females, I am
told, are the daughters of farmers who are in good circumstances. Here
are none of the lazzaroni hucksters of fruit and sweet-meats, that form
such a deplorable spectacle in the finest cities of Britain; nor of
the miserables who rise earlier than the sun, to pick from amongst the
ashes, the charred offal of their neighbour’s fire.

_September 3._ To-day I have seen a man sprawling on the ground in a
state of intoxication; he is a native of Ireland. This is the first
instance of the kind which I have seen in America. From this incident,
I do not mean to represent that the people here do not drink spirituous
liquors. The truth is, that many drink of them almost the moment after
they get out of bed, and also at frequent intervals during the day; but
though this fact has been noticed, the first conclusion is nevertheless
true, that excessive drinking is rare.

{37} The saw for cross-cutting timber for fuel, is a tool which, for
superior expedition, recommends itself to joiners and others. The
following figure is a representation of it.

AB is the blade, about thirty inches long, and about two inches broad.
It is very thin, and its teeth are very slightly bent to the right and
left, so that it makes a narrow cut, through which the slender blade
moves with little friction,--hence its facilities. The crooked stick
ECA is the handle, FDB is another crooked stick, into which the blade
is fixed at B. The wooden bar CD serves for fulcra, over which the
blade is stretched by twisting the small rope EF, by means of the peg
GH.

[Illustration]

The sawing of firewood, and many other sorts of hard labour, are
chiefly performed by black people. Happily, very few of these are
now slaves in Pennsylvania. Free blacks, it is understood, have no
difficulty in earning the means of subsistence, but the circumstance
of their being despised and degraded, has had bad effects on their
character. Even the Quakers, who have so honourably promoted negro
emancipation, allot a separate part of the church to people of colour.
In the state prison, too, they are separated from whites. These odious
distinctions should be abolished in a free country.

Negroes are stigmatized as an inferior race; indolent, dishonest,
and vindictive in the extreme. {38} There can be no doubt that, in
many instances, these characteristics are too just, but it cannot be
otherwise, while moral culture is, in a great measure, withheld from
them, while they are excluded from the society of the wise and the
good, and while the hope of applause gives no stimulus to the coloured
man. Moral or immoral, he is a negro. This, of itself, is enough to
keep him down. If Africans were placed on a similar footing, and with
the same opportunities, as their white neighbours, and if they still
kept behind, we might then begin to suspect a radical defect in their
nature. But, as they are, it cannot be pretended that the experiment
has been made.

For some time past, the democratic party have been nominating
candidates for their general support in the ensuing election. No doubt
is entertained of a democratic preponderance in the next session of
Congress. The Federalist cabal is now disconcerted in this part of the
Union. The mercenary avarice that would barter the independence of
America for English goods, was never less formidable than now.

Here, as at New York, boarding houses are to be found, varying from
the simplest accommodations, to elegance and luxury. The person who
lives in a house where a high price is paid for board, is separated
from the poorer class, and his acquaintances and associates are people
in affluent circumstances and polished education; he is as free in
the choice of his society as he possibly can be. Without doors,
however, persons of lesser note are not treated with _hauteur_, and in
transacting business the utmost affability prevails.

The dress worn in temperate weather is the same as in Britain, with
this difference only, that pantaloons {39} are almost universal: the
shorter small-clothes are used only by Quakers. On Sundays it would be
difficult to discriminate betwixt the hired girl and the daughter in a
genteel family, were drapery the sole criterion. Attentive observation
of the people on the streets, would convince any one of the general
diffusion of comfort and competence.

The symptoms of republican equality are visible in all the members
of the community. I have seen several curious instances of this,
which would surprise those accustomed only to the manners of the
old world. For example, the Mayor is a respectable-looking, plainly
dressed gentleman, and apparently a penetrating and efficient police
magistrate. On a late occasion the court was crowded, and the weather
hot; he desired a person in attendance to bring cold water. It was
brought in a brown jug, not accompanied with a glass. A person within
the railing (probably a lawyer or clerk, more thirsty than his honour)
intercepted the vessel, drank, and then handed it to the Judge.

On the Sabbath, we do not witness all the stillness and solemnity that
usually characterize a presbyterian town. On the _morning_ of that
day, I have seen loaded waggons start in the market street, for the
westward. A grocer, opposite to the house where I board, has two shops,
one of them he keeps open for the sale of liquor, segars, &c. In a
late newspaper, a complaint appeared against bringing cattle into the
street for sale on Sunday _afternoon_. If this complaint was founded
on truth, it is at least evident that it was addressed to citizens
who, it was believed, would suppress the evil. I am inclined to think
that a very great proportion of the people spend the day in the duties
of {40} religion; but some here, as in other places, employ it purely
as a day of rest; some as a day of amusement; and others in visiting
friends, or other convivial meetings. On a Sunday afternoon I have
heard many reports of guns, in the neighbouring woods or swamps. You
will consider all this as a foul blot on the fair character of the City
of Brethren; but I trust that your liberality will not impute to the
jurisprudence of America, pre-existing customs, that, at every stage
of the settlement, must have been imported from England; even from a
country which pays tithes, for the support of a priesthood.

Every day numbers of European emigrants are to be seen in the streets.
The ingress is greater than at any former time. I have never heard of
another feeling than good wishes to them. For my own part, I have met
with several receptions kinder than I ever could have anticipated;
and have become acquainted with a number of excellent citizens, whose
approbation will always be sufficient to convey a high gratification to
my mind.


FOOTNOTES:

[17] The author’s route from New York to Philadelphia was by boat to
New Brunswick, thence by stage to Trenton on the Delaware, where boat
was taken for Philadelphia. Stages, by this time, had practically
ceased running between New York and Philadelphia.--ED.

[18] James Witherspoon, born in Haddingtonshore, Scotland, in 1722, was
a descendant of John Knox. Graduating from Edinburgh University, and
receiving ordination as a Presbyterian minister, in 1768 he accepted
an invitation to become president of Princeton College, and brought
with him a considerable addition to the college library. From the first
he took an active part in the Revolutionary War; as member of the
provincial assembly, he assisted in overthrowing the royal governor;
as member of the continental congress he signed the Declaration of
Independence, and aided in initiating several important legislative
measures. After the close of the war, he retired to his farm near
Princeton, dying there in September, 1794.--ED.

[19] Washington’s Letters, vol. ii, page 4, Lond. 1795.--FLINT.

[20] John Mease, a wealthy and philanthropic Philadelphian, was born
in 1771. Although a graduate of the Medical College of the University
of Pennsylvania, he did not practice regularly, but devoted himself to
literary and scientific pursuits. In association with David Rittenhouse
and other members of the Philosophical Society, he was engaged in
numerous undertakings for the betterment of the city. His _Picture
of Philadelphia_, published in 1811, was for many years the best
travellers’ guide thereof.--ED.

[21] The American Philosophical Society, the oldest scientific
association in America, was organized by Franklin in 1743. In 1769 it
was combined with the American Society for Promoting Useful Knowledge,
and from that date (except for a few years during the Revolutionary
War) has never failed to meet regularly. Among its presidents may be
noted Franklin, Jefferson, Rittenhouse, and Caspar Wistar.

The Society of Artists, formed in 1810, to establish a school of
drawing and hold an annual exhibition of foreign and American
paintings, was dissolved soon after Flint’s visit to Philadelphia.

The Academy of Fine Arts was organized in 1805, largely through the
efforts of Charles Wilson Peale. The following year a building was
occupied, and the first exhibition opened in 1811, in conjunction with
the Society of Artists. The Academy has ceased to hold exhibitions, but
maintains a good permanent collection.

The Museum, opened by Peale at his residence in 1784, contained for
the most part portraits of Revolutionary heroes painted by himself.
When transferred to Independence Hall (1802), it included a large
collection of birds, insects, and the implements of primitive men.
The Philadelphia Museum Company acquired it in 1821; but later the
collection was sold and dispersed.--ED.

[22] Dr. Mease’s Picture of Philadelphia.--FLINT.

[23] Thomas Cooper, born in London in 1759, was eminent both as a
lawyer and a scientist. Educated at Oxford, he practiced law, first
in England, and after 1795 in Northumberland, Pennsylvania. Upon a
visit to France (about 1792), he studied chemistry, and continued his
researches in that science after coming to America. Upon being removed,
for arbitrary conduct, from a judgeship (1811), he was appointed
professor of chemistry at Dickinson College, later at the University
of Pennsylvania, and in 1820 became president of the college of South
Carolina. At the time of his death (1840) he was engaged in revising
the statutes of the latter state, and in writing pamphlets in favor of
state rights.--ED.

[24] For a brief biography of David Rittenhouse, see A. Michaux’s
_Travels_, volume iii of our series, note 75.--ED.

[25] Alexander Wilson was for many years a weaver and poet in Paisley,
Scotland. Trouble breaking out between the weavers and masters,
he emigrated to Philadelphia in 1794, becoming in turn weaver,
school-teacher, and peddler. In 1802 the scientist John Bartram became
interested in Wilson’s talents, and gave systematic direction to his
natural taste for ornithology, to which he devoted the remainder of his
life. He published his first volume of _American Ornithology_ in 1808,
and had nearly completed nine volumes before his death, in 1813.--ED.

[26] A public reading-room called the Atheneum was established by
private subscription in 1814. Ten years later it contained 3,300
volumes, including prominent foreign and American reviews. Rooms were
rented from the American Philosophical Society until 1847, when the
Atheneum building was erected.--ED.

[27] For a sketch of John Melish, see Bradbury’s _Travels_, volume v of
our series, note 129.--ED.

[28] For a brief description of the National Road, see Harris’s
_Journal_, volume iii of our series, note 45.--ED.




{41} LETTER IV[29]

 Journey from Philadelphia to Pittsburg--Lancaster--Elizabeth
 Town--The River Susquehana--Harrisburg--Carlisle--Chambersburg--Cove
 Mountain--Macconnel’s Town--Sidelong-hill--The
 river Juniata--Bedford--The Allegany
 Ridge--Stoystown--Laurel-hill--Lauchlinstown--Chesnut
 Ridge--Greensburg--Adamsburg--Pittsburg--Interspersed remarks on the
 Country, Taverns, &c.--Notices of Emigrants, and occurrences by the
 way.


  _Pittsburg, 28th September._

The contents of this will be composed of notes taken on my journey from
Philadelphia to Pittsburg.[30]

On the morning of the 20th of September, I went to the Coach-Office in
Philadelphia to take my seat. Such is the number of travellers that I
found it necessary to take out a ticket two days previously.

The mail-coach is a large clumsy vehicle, carrying twelve passengers.
It is greatly encumbered by large bags, which are enormously swollen by
the bulk of newspapers. As a substitute for glass windows, a large roll
of leather is let down on each side in bad weather.

During the greater part of the day our route was through a part of the
country of a clayey soil, moderately fertile, and of a flat insipid
surface. Late in the afternoon, we passed some land of a finer mould,
and more elegant structure, with fruit trees bending under their load.
The Indian {42} corn is nearly ripe, and is a great crop this year.
The stalks are generally about eight feet high. The people have been
picking the leaves off this sort of crop, and setting them up between
the rows in conical bunches, to be preserved as winter food for the
cattle.

We passed several family waggons moving westward. The young and the
strong walking, the aged and infants riding. Waggons for removing
families, and those for carrying goods to Pittsburg, have a canvass
cover, stretched over hoops that pass from one side of the waggon to
the other, in the form of an arch. The front is left open, to give the
passengers within the vehicle the benefit of a free circulation of cool
air.

Lancaster is a large town, well known for the manufacture of
rifle-guns. We were too late in the evening for having a distinct sight
of the place, or of the country towards Elizabeth Town, which is much
commended.

_September 21._ The coach stopped at Elizabeth Town, last night, for
three hours, and started again before three o’clock. We were near
Middletown (eight miles on our way) before the light disclosed to our
eyes a pleasant and fertile country.

It was near Middletown that we got the first peep of the river
Susquehana, which is here about a mile in breadth. The trees on the
east bank, confining the view to the right and left, produced an
illusory effect, almost imposing on the mind a lake instead of the
river. The highly transparent state of the air, and the placid surface
of the water, united in producing a most distinct reflexion of the bold
banks on the opposite side. Cliffs, partially concealed by a luxuriant
growth of trees, 


The Project Gutenberg eBook of The conscience of a Conservative
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The conscience of a Conservative

Author: Barry M. Goldwater

Release date: August 27, 2024 [eBook #74319]

Language: English

Original publication: Shepherdsville, KY: Victor Publishing Co, 1960

Credits: Tim Lindell, Craig Kirkwood, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images made available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CONSCIENCE OF A CONSERVATIVE ***


Transcriber’s Notes:

Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

Additional Transcriber’s Notes are at the end.

       *       *       *       *       *




THE CONSCIENCE OF A CONSERVATIVE


  _by_
  BARRY GOLDWATER

  _1960_
  VICTOR PUBLISHING COMPANY, INC.
  1 4th Avenue, Shepherdsville, Kentucky

       *       *       *       *       *

  Copyright 1960

  By

  VICTOR PUBLISHING COMPANY, INC.

  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No reproduction in any form of
  this book, in whole or in part, (except for brief quotation
  in critical articles or reviews) may be made without written
  authorization from the publisher.

  First Printing 10,000 copies March 1960
  Second Printing 10,000 copies April 1960
  Third Printing 50,000 copies May 1960

  Library of Congress Catalog Card Number 60-12269

  Printed in the United States of America




FOREWORD


This book is not written with the idea of adding to or improving on the
Conservative philosophy. Or of “bringing it up to date.” The ancient
and tested truths that guided our Republic through its early days
will do equally well for us. The challenge to Conservatives today is
quite simply to demonstrate the bearing of a proven philosophy on the
problems of our own time.

I should explain the considerations that led me to join in this
effort. I am a politician, a United States Senator. As such, I have
had an opportunity to learn something about the political instincts
of the American people, I have crossed the length and breadth of
this great land hundreds of times and talked with tens of thousands
of people, with Democrats and Republicans, with farmers and laborers
and businessmen. I find that America is fundamentally a Conservative
nation. The preponderant judgment of the American people, especially
of the young people, is that the radical, or Liberal, approach has not
worked and is not working. They yearn for a return to Conservative
principles.

At the same time, I have been in a position to observe first hand how
Conservatism is faring in Washington. And it is all too clear that in
spite of a Conservative revival among the people the radical ideas that
were promoted by the New and Fair Deals under the guise of Liberalism
still dominate the councils of our national government.

In a country where it is now generally understood and proclaimed that
the people’s welfare depends on individual self reliance rather than
on state paternalism, Congress annually deliberates over whether the
_increase_ in government welfarism should be small or large.

In a country where it is now generally understood and proclaimed that
the federal government spends too much, Congress annually deliberates
over whether to raise the federal budget by a few billion dollars or by
many billion.

In a country where it is now generally understood and proclaimed that
individual liberty depends on decentralized government, Congress
annually deliberates over whether vigorous or halting steps should be
taken to bring state government into line with federal policy.

In a country where it is now generally understood and proclaimed
that Communism is an enemy bound to destroy us, Congress annually
deliberates over means of “co-existing” with the Soviet Union.

And so the question arises: Why have American people been unable to
translate their views into appropriate political action? Why should the
nation’s underlying allegiance to Conservative principles have failed
to produce corresponding deeds in Washington?

I do not blame my brethren in government, all of whom
work hard and conscientiously at their jobs. I blame
Conservatives--ourselves--myself. Our failure, as one Conservative
writer has put it, is the failure of the Conservative demonstration.
Though we Conservatives are deeply persuaded that our society
is ailing, and know that Conservatism holds the key to national
salvation--and feel sure the country agrees with us--we seem unable
to demonstrate the practical relevance of Conservative principles to
the needs of the day. We sit by impotently while Congress seeks to
improvise solutions to problems that are not the real problems facing
the country, while the government attempts to assuage imagined concerns
and ignores the real concerns and real needs of the people.

Perhaps we suffer from an over-sensitivity to the judgments of those
who rule the mass communications media. We are daily consigned by
“enlightened” commentators to political oblivion: Conservatism, we
are told, is out-of-date. The charge is preposterous and we ought
boldly to say so. The laws of God, and of nature, have no dateline.
The principles on which the Conservative political position is based
have been established by a process that has nothing to do with the
social, economic and political landscape that changes from decade to
decade and from century to century. These principles are derived from
the nature of man, and from the truths that God has revealed about His
creation. Circumstances do change. So do the problems that are shaped
by circumstances. But the principles that govern the solution of the
problems do not. To suggest that the Conservative philosophy is out of
date is akin to saying that the Golden Rule, or the Ten Commandments or
Aristotle’s _Politics_ are out of date. The Conservative approach is
nothing more or less than an attempt to apply the wisdom and experience
and the revealed truths of the past to the problems of today. The
challenge is not to find new or different truths, but to learn how to
apply established truths to the problems of the contemporary world. My
hope is that one more Conservative voice will be helpful in meeting
this challenge.

This book is an attempt to bridge the gap between theory and practice.
I shall draw upon my speeches, the radio and television broadcasts and
the notes I have made over the years in the hope of doing what one is
often unable to do in the course of a harried day’s work on the Senate
floor: to show the connection between Conservative principles so widely
espoused, and Conservative action, so generally neglected.




Table of Contents


                                   PAGE
                                  NUMBER

  FOREWORD

  THE CONSCIENCE OF A CONSERVATIVE  9

  THE PERILS OF POWER              15

  STATES’ RIGHTS                   24

  AND CIVIL RIGHTS                 31

  FREEDOM FOR THE FARMER           38

  FREEDOM FOR LABOR                44

  TAXES AND SPENDING               58

  THE WELFARE STATE                68

  SOME NOTES ON EDUCATION          76

  THE SOVIET MENACE                86




CHAPTER ONE The Conscience of a Conservative


I have been much concerned that so many people today with Conservative
instincts feel compelled to apologize for them. Or if not to apologize
directly, to qualify their commitment in a way that amounts to
breast-beating. “Republican candidates,” Vice President Nixon has
said, “should be economic conservatives, but conservatives with a
heart.” President Eisenhower announced during his first term, “I am
conservative when it comes to economic problems but liberal when
it comes to human problems.” Still other Republican leaders have
insisted on calling themselves “progressive” Conservatives.[1] These
formulations are tantamount to an admission that Conservatism is a
narrow, mechanistic _economic_ theory that may work very well as a
bookkeeper’s guide, but cannot be relied upon as a comprehensive
political philosophy.

The same judgment, though in the form of an attack rather than an
admission, is advanced by the radical camp. “We liberals,” they say,
“are interested in _people_. Our concern is with human beings, while
you Conservatives are preoccupied with the preservation of economic
privilege and status.” Take them a step further, and the Liberals will
turn the accusations into a class argument: it is the little people
that concern us, not the “malefactors of great wealth.”

Such statements, from friend and foe alike, do great injustice to the
Conservative point of view. Conservatism is _not_ an economic theory,
though it has economic implications. The shoe is precisely on the other
foot: it is Socialism that subordinates all other considerations to
man’s material well-being. It is Conservatism that puts material things
in their proper place--that has a structured view of the human being
and of human society, in which economics plays only a subsidiary role.

The root difference between the Conservatives and the Liberals of
today is that Conservatives take account of the _whole_ man, while the
Liberals tend to look only at the material side of man’s nature. The
Conservative believes that man is, in part, an economic, an animal
creature; but that he is also a spiritual creature with spiritual needs
and spiritual desires. What is more, these needs and desires reflect
the _superior_ side of man’s nature, and thus take precedence over his
economic wants. Conservatism therefore looks upon the enhancement of
man’s spiritual nature as the primary concern of political philosophy.
Liberals, on the other hand,--in the name of a concern for “human
beings”--regard the satisfaction of economic wants as the dominant
mission of society. They are, moreover, in a hurry. So that their
characteristic approach is to harness the society’s political and
economic forces into a collective effort to _compel_ “progress.” In
this approach, I believe they fight against Nature.

Surely the first obligation of a political thinker is to understand
the nature of man. The Conservative does not claim special powers of
perception on this point, but he does claim a familiarity with the
accumulated wisdom and experience of history, and he is not too proud
to learn from the great minds of the past.

The first thing he has learned about man is that each member of the
species is a unique creature. Man’s most sacred possession is his
individual soul--which has an immortal side, but also a mortal one.
The mortal side establishes his absolute differentness from every
other human being. _Only a philosophy that takes into account the
essential differences between men, and, accordingly, makes provision
for developing the different potentialities of each man can claim to
be in accord with Nature._ We have heard much in our time about “the
common man.” It is a concept that pays little attention to the history
of a nation that grew great through the initiative and ambition of
uncommon men. The Conservative knows that to regard man as part of an
undifferentiated mass is to consign him to ultimate slavery.

Secondly, the Conservative has learned that the economic and spiritual
aspects of man’s nature are inextricably intertwined. He cannot be
economically free, or even economically efficient, if he is enslaved
politically; conversely, man’s political freedom is illusory if he is
dependent for his economic needs on the State.

The Conservative realizes, thirdly, that man’s development, in both its
spiritual and material aspects, is not something that can be directed
by outside forces. Every man, for his individual good and for the good
of his society, is responsible for his _own_ development. The choices
that govern his life are choices that _he_ must make: they cannot be
made by any other human being, or by a collectivity of human beings. If
the Conservative is less anxious than his Liberal brethren to increase
Social Security “benefits,” it is because he is more anxious than his
Liberal brethren that people be free throughout their lives to spend
their earnings when and as they see fit.

So it is that Conservatism, throughout history, has regarded
man neither as a potential pawn of other men, nor as a part of
a general collectivity in which the sacredness and the separate
identity of individual human beings are ignored. Throughout history,
true Conservatism has been at war equally with autocrats and with
“democratic” Jacobins. The true Conservative was sympathetic with the
plight of the hapless peasant under the tyranny of the French monarchy.
And he was equally revolted at the attempt to solve that problem by
a mob tyranny that paraded under the banner of egalitarianism. The
conscience of the Conservative is pricked by _anyone_ who would debase
the dignity of the individual human being. Today, therefore, he is at
odds with dictators who rule by terror, and equally with those gentler
collectivists who ask our permission to play God with the human race.

With this view of the nature of man, it is understandable that
the Conservative looks upon politics as the art of achieving the
maximum amount of freedom for individuals that is consistent with
the maintenance of social order. The Conservative is the first to
understand that the practice of freedom requires the establishment
of order: it is impossible for one man to be free if another is able
to deny him the exercise of his freedom. But the Conservative also
recognizes that the political power on which order is based is a
self-aggrandizing force; that its appetite grows with eating. He knows
that the utmost vigilance and care are required to keep political
power within its proper bounds.

In our day, order is pretty well taken care of. The delicate balance
that ideally exists between freedom and order has long since tipped
against freedom practically everywhere on earth. In some countries,
freedom is altogether down and order holds absolute sway. In our
country the trend is less far advanced, but it is well along and
gathering momentum every day. Thus, for the American Conservative,
there is no difficulty in identifying the day’s overriding political
challenge: it is _to preserve and extend freedom_. As he surveys the
various attitudes and institutions and laws that currently prevail
in America, many questions will occur to him, but the Conservative’s
first concern will always be: _Are we maximizing freedom?_ I suggest we
examine some of the critical issues facing us today with this question
in mind.


FOOTNOTE:

[1] This is a strange label indeed: it implies that “ordinary”
Conservatism is opposed to progress. Have we forgotten that America
made its greatest progress when Conservative principles were honored
and preserved.




CHAPTER TWO The Perils of Power


The New Deal, Dean Acheson wrote approvingly in a book called _A
Democrat Looks At His Party_, “conceived of the federal government as
the whole people organized to do what had to be done.” A year later Mr.
Larson wrote _A Republican Looks At His Party_, and made much the same
claim in his book for Modern Republicans. The “underlying philosophy”
of the New Republicanism, said Mr. Larson, is that “if a job has to be
done to meet the needs of the people, and no one else can do it, then
it is the proper function of the federal government.”

Here we have, by prominent spokesmen of both political parties, an
unqualified repudiation of the principle of limited government. There
is no reference by either of them to the Constitution, or any attempt
to define the legitimate functions of government. The government can
do whatever _needs_ to be done; note, too, the implicit but necessary
assumption that it is the government itself that determines _what_
needs to be done. We must not, I think underrate the importance of
these statements. They reflect the view of a majority of the leaders
of one of our parties, and of a strong minority among the leaders of
the other, and they propound the first principle of totalitarianism:
that the State is competent to do all things and is limited in what it
actually does only by the will of those who control the State.

It is clear that this view is in direct conflict with the Constitution
which is an instrument, above all, for _limiting_ the functions of
government, and which is as binding today as when it was written. But
we are advised to go a step further and ask why the Constitution’s
framers restricted the scope of government. Conservatives are often
charged, and in a sense rightly so, with having an overly mechanistic
view of the Constitution: “It is America’s enabling document; we are
American citizens; therefore,” the Conservatives’ theme runs, “we are
morally and legally obliged to comply with the document.” All true.
But the Constitution has a broader claim on our loyalty than that. The
founding fathers had a _reason_ for endorsing the principle of limited
government; and this reason recommends defense of the constitutional
scheme even to those who take their citizenship obligations lightly.
The reason is simple, and it lies at the heart of the Conservative
philosophy.

Throughout history, government has proved to be the chief instrument
for thwarting man’s liberty. Government represents power in the
hands of some men to control and regulate the lives of other men. And
power, as Lord Acton said, _corrupts_ men. “Absolute power,” he added,
“corrupts absolutely.”

State power, considered in the abstract, need not restrict freedom:
but absolute state power always does. The _legitimate_ functions of
government are actually conducive to freedom. Maintaining internal
order, keeping foreign foes at bay, administering justice, removing
obstacles to the free interchange of goods--the exercise of these
powers makes it possible for men to follow their chosen pursuits with
maximum freedom. But note that the very instrument by which these
desirable ends are achieved _can_ be the instrument for achieving
undesirable ends--that government can, instead of extending freedom,
restrict freedom. And note, secondly, that the “can” quickly becomes
“will” the moment the holders of government power are left to their
own devices. This is because of the corrupting influence of power,
the natural tendency of men who possess _some_ power to take unto
themselves _more_ power. The tendency leads eventually to the
acquisition of _all_ power--whether in the hands of one or many makes
little difference to the freedom of those left on the outside.

Such, then, is history’s lesson, which Messrs. Acheson and Larson
evidently did not read: release the holders of state power from any
restraints other than those they wish to impose upon themselves, and
you are swinging down the well-travelled road to absolutism.

The framers of the Constitution had learned the lesson. They were not
only students of history, but victims of it: they knew from vivid,
personal experience that freedom depends on effective restraints
against the accumulation of power in a single authority. And that is
what the Constitution is: _a system of restraints against the natural
tendency of government to expand in the direction of absolutism_. We
all know the main components of the system. The first is the limitation
of the federal government’s authority to specific, delegated powers.
The second, a corollary of the first, is the reservation to the States
and the people of all power not delegated to the federal government.
The third is a careful division of the federal government’s power among
three separate branches. The fourth is a prohibition against impetuous
alteration of the system--namely, Article V’s tortuous, but wise,
amendment procedures.

Was it then a _Democracy_ the framers created? Hardly. The system of
restraints, on the face of it, was directed not only against individual
tyrants, but also against a tyranny of the masses. The framers were
well aware of the danger posed by self-seeking demagogues--that they
might persuade a majority of the people to confer on government vast
powers in return for deceptive promises of economic gain. And so they
forbade such a transfer of power--first by declaring, in effect, that
certain activities are outside the natural and legitimate scope of the
public authority, and secondly by dispersing public authority among
several levels and branches of government in the hope that each seat
of authority, jealous of its own prerogatives, would have a natural
incentive to resist aggression by the others.

But the framers were not visionaries. They knew that rules of
government, however brilliantly calculated to cope with the imperfect
nature of man, however carefully designed to avoid the pitfalls of
power, would be no match for men who were determined to disregard them.
In the last analysis their system of government would prosper only if
the governed were sufficiently determined that it should. “What have
you given us?” a woman asked Ben Franklin toward the close of the
Constitutional Convention. “A Republic,” he said, “_if you can keep
it_!”

We have not kept it. The Achesons and Larsons have had their way. The
system of restraints has fallen into disrepair. The federal government
has moved into every field in which it believes its services are
needed. The state governments are either excluded from their rightful
functions by federal preemption, or they are allowed to act at the
sufferance of the federal government. Inside the federal government
both the executive and judicial branches have roamed far outside their
constitutional boundary lines. And all of these things have come to
pass without regard to the amendment procedures prescribed by Article
V. The result is a Leviathan, a vast national authority out of touch
with the people, and out of their control. This monolith of power is
bounded only by the will of those who sit in high places.

There are a number of ways in which the power of government can be
measured.

One is the size of its financial operations. Federal spending is now
approaching a hundred billion dollars a year (compared with three and
one-half billion less than three decades ago.)

Another is the scope of its activities. A study recently conducted
by the _Chicago Tribune_ showed that the federal government is now
the “biggest land owner, property manager, renter, mover and hauler,
medical clinician, lender, insurer, mortgage broker, employer, debtor,
taxer and spender in all history.”

Still another is the portion of the peoples’ earnings government
appropriates for its own use: nearly a third of earnings are taken
every year in the form of taxes.

A fourth is the extent of government interference in the daily lives
of individuals. The farmer is told how much wheat he can grow. The
wage earner is at the mercy of national union leaders whose great
power is a direct consequence of federal labor legislation. The
businessman is hampered by a maze of government regulations, and often
by direct government competition. The government takes six per cent of
most payrolls in Social Security Taxes and thus compels millions of
individuals to postpone until later years the enjoyment of wealth they
might otherwise enjoy today. Increasingly, the federal government sets
standards of education, health and safety.

How did it happen? How did our national government grow from a servant
with sharply limited powers into a master with virtually unlimited
power?

In part, we were swindled. There are occasions when we have elevated
men and political parties to power that promised to restore limited
government and then proceeded, after their election, to expand the
activities of government. But let us be honest with ourselves. Broken
promises are not the major causes of our trouble. _Kept_ promises are.
All too often we have put men in office who have suggested spending a
little more on this, a little more on that, who have proposed a new
welfare program, who have thought of another variety of “security.” We
have taken the bait, preferring to put off to another day the recapture
of freedom and the restoration of our constitutional system. We have
gone the way of many a democratic society that has lost its freedom by
persuading itself that if “the people” rule, all is well.

The Frenchman, Alexis de Tocqueville, probably the most clairvoyant
political observer of modern times, saw the danger when he visited this
country in the 1830’s. Even then he foresaw decay for a society that
tended to put more emphasis on its democracy than on its republicanism.
He predicted that America would produce, not tyrants but “guardians.”
And that the American people would “console themselves for being in
tutelage by the reflection that they have chosen their own guardians.
Every man allows himself to be put in lead-strings, because he sees
that it is not a person nor a class of persons, but the people at large
that hold the end of his chain.”

Our tendency to concentrate power in the hands of a few men deeply
concerns me. We can be conquered by bombs or by subversion; but we
can also be conquered by neglect--by ignoring the Constitution and
disregarding the principles of limited government. Our defenses against
the accumulation of unlimited power in Washington are in poorer shape,
I fear, than our defenses against the aggressive designs of Moscow.
Like so many other nations before us, we may succumb through internal
weakness rather than fall before a foreign foe.

I am convinced that most Americans now want to reverse the trend. I
think that concern for our vanishing freedoms is genuine. I think that
the people’s uneasiness in the stifling omnipresence of government has
turned into something approaching alarm. But bemoaning the evil will
not drive it back, and accusing fingers will not shrink government.

_The turn will come when we entrust the conduct of our affairs to men
who understand that their first duty as public officials is to divest
themselves of the power they have been given._ It will come when
Americans, in hundreds of communities throughout the nation, decide
to put the man in office who is pledged to enforce the Constitution
and restore the Republic. Who will proclaim in a campaign speech:
“I have little interest in streamlining government or in making it
more efficient, for I mean to reduce its size. I do not undertake to
promote welfare, for I propose to extend freedom. My aim is not to pass
laws, but to repeal them. It is not to inaugurate new programs, but
to cancel old ones that do violence to the Constitution, or that have
failed in their purpose, or that impose on the people an unwarranted
financial burden. I will not attempt to discover whether legislation is
‘needed’ before I have first determined whether it is constitutionally
permissible. And if I should later be attacked for neglecting my
constituents’ ‘interests,’ I shall reply that I was informed their main
interest is liberty and that in that cause I am doing the very best I
can.”




CHAPTER THREE States’ Rights


The Governor of New York, in 1930, pointed out that the Constitution
does not empower the Congress to deal with “a great number of ... vital
problems of government, such as the conduct of public utilities, of
banks, of insurance, of business, of agriculture, of education, of
social welfare, and a dozen other important features.” And he added
that “Washington must not be encouraged to interfere” in these areas.

Franklin Roosevelt’s rapid conversion from Constitutionalism to the
doctrine of unlimited government, is an oft-told story. But I am here
concerned not so much by the abandonment of States’ Rights by the
national Democratic Party--an event that occurred some years ago when
that party was captured by the Socialist ideologues in and about the
labor movement--as by the unmistakable tendency of the Republican Party
to adopt the same course. The result is that today _neither_ of our two
parties maintains a meaningful commitment to the principle of States’
Rights. Thus, the cornerstone of the Republic, our chief bulwark
against the encroachment of individual freedom by Big Government, is
fast disappearing under the piling sands of absolutism.

The Republican Party, to be sure, gives lip-service to States’ Rights.
We often _talk_ about “returning to the States their rightful powers”;
the Administration has even gone so far as to sponsor a federal-state
conference on the problem. But deeds are what count, and I regret
to say that in actual practice, the Republican Party, like the
Democratic Party, summons the coercive power of the federal government
whenever national leaders conclude that the States are not performing
satisfactorily.

Let us focus attention on one method of federal interference--one
that tends to be neglected in much of the public discussion of the
problem. In recent years the federal government has continued, and in
many cases has increased, federal “grants-in-aid” to the States in a
number of areas in which the Constitution recognizes the exclusive
jurisdiction of the States. These grants are called “matching funds”
and are designed to “stimulate” state spending in health, education,
welfare, conservation or any other area in which the federal government
decides there is a need for national action. If the States agree to
put up money for these purposes, the federal government undertakes to
match the appropriation according to a ratio prescribed by Congress.
Sometimes the ratio is fifty-fifty; often the federal government
contributes over half the cost.

There are two things to note about these programs. The first is
that they are _federal_ programs--they are conceived by the federal
government both as to purpose and as to extent. The second is that
the “stimulative” grants are, in effect, a mixture of blackmail and
bribery. The States are told to go along with the program “or else.”
Once the federal government has offered matching funds, it is unlikely,
as a practical matter, that a member of a State Legislature will turn
down his State’s fair share of revenue collected from all of the
States. Understandably, many legislators feel that to refuse aid would
be political suicide. This is an indirect form of coercion, but it is
effective nonetheless.

A more direct method of coercion is for the federal government to
_threaten_ to move in unless state governments take action that
Washington deems appropriate. Not so long ago, for example, the
Secretary of Labor gave the States a lecture on the wisdom of enacting
“up-to-date” unemployment compensation laws. He made no effort to
disguise the alternative: if the States failed to act, the federal
government would.

Here are some examples of the “stimulative” approach. Late in 1957
a “Joint Federal-State Action Committee” recommended that certain
matching funds programs be “returned” to the States on the scarcely
disguised grounds that the States, in the view of the Committee, had
learned to live up to their responsibilities. These are the areas
in which the States were learning to behave: “vocational education”
programs in agriculture, home economics, practical nursing, and the
fisheries trade; local sewage projects; slum clearance and urban
renewal; and enforcement of health and safety standards in connection
with the atomic energy program.

Now the point is not that Congress failed to act on these
recommendations, or that the Administration gave them only half-hearted
support; but rather that the federal government had no business
entering these fields in the first place, and thus had no business
taking upon itself the prerogative of judging the States’ performance.
The Republican Party should have said this plainly and forthrightly and
demanded the immediate withdrawal of the federal government.

We can best understand our error, I think, by examining the theory
behind it. I have already alluded to the book, _A Republican Looks
at His Party_, which is an elaborate rationalization of the “Modern
Republican” approach to current problems. (It does the job just as
well, I might add, for the Democrats’ approach.) Mr. Larson devotes
a good deal of space to the question of States’ Rights. He contends
that while there is “a general presumption” in favor of States’
Rights, thanks to the Tenth Amendment, this presumption must give
way whenever it appears to the federal authorities that the States
are not responding satisfactorily to “the needs of the people.” This
is a paraphrase of his position but not, I think, an unjust one. And
if this approach appears to be a high-handed way of dealing with an
explicit constitutional provision, Mr. Larson justifies the argument by
summoning the concept that “for every right there is a corresponding
duty.” “When we speak of States’ Rights,” he writes, “we should never
forget to add that there go with those rights the corresponding States’
responsibilities.” Therefore, he concludes, if the States fail to
do their duty, they have only themselves to blame when the federal
government intervenes.

The trouble with this argument is that it treats the Constitution of
the United States as a kind of handbook in political theory, to be
heeded or ignored depending on how it fits the plans of contemporary
federal officials. The Tenth Amendment is _not_ “a general assumption,”
but a prohibitory rule of law. The Tenth Amendment recognizes the
States’ _jurisdiction_ in certain areas. States’ Rights means that the
States have a right to act or _not to act_, as they see fit, in the
areas reserved to them. The States may have duties corresponding to
these rights, but the duties are owed to the people of the States, not
to the federal government. Therefore, the recourse lies not with the
federal government, which is not sovereign, but with the people who
are, and who have full power to take disciplinary action. If the people
are unhappy with say, their State’s disability insurance program, they
can bring pressure to bear on their state officials and, if that fails,
they can elect a new set of officials. And if, in the unhappy event
they should wish to divest themselves of this responsibility, they can
amend the Constitution. The Constitution, I repeat, draws a sharp and
clear line between federal jurisdiction and state jurisdiction. The
federal government’s failure to recognize that line has been a crushing
blow to the principle of limited government.

But again, I caution against a defensive, or apologetic, appeal to
the Constitution. There is a _reason_ for its reservation of States’
Rights. Not only does it prevent the accumulation of power in a central
government that is remote from the people and relatively immune from
popular restraints; it also recognizes the principle that essentially
local problems are best dealt with by the people most directly
concerned. Who knows better than New Yorkers how much and what kind of
publicly-financed slum clearance in New York City is needed and can be
afforded? Who knows better than Nebraskans whether that State has an
adequate nursing program? Who knows better than Arizonans the kind of
school program that is needed to educate their children? The people
of my own State--and I am confident that I speak for the majority of
them--have long since seen through the spurious suggestion that federal
aid comes “free.” They know that the money comes out of their own
pockets, and that it is returned to them minus a broker’s fee taken by
the federal bureaucracy. They know, too, that the power to decide how
that money shall be spent is withdrawn from them and exercised by some
planning board deep in the caverns of one of the federal agencies. They
understand this represents a great and perhaps irreparable loss--not
only in their wealth, but in their priceless liberty.

Nothing could so far advance the cause of freedom as for state
officials throughout the land to assert their rightful claims to lost
state power; and for the federal government to withdraw promptly and
totally from every jurisdiction which the Constitution reserved to the
states.




CHAPTER FOUR And Civil Rights


An attempt has been made in recent years to disparage the principle of
States’ Rights by equating it with defense of the South’s position on
racial integration. I have already indicated that the reach of States’
Rights is much broader than that--that it affects Northerners as well
as Southerners, and concerns many matters that have nothing to do with
the race question. Still, it is quite true that the integration issue
is affected by the States’ Rights principle, and that the South’s
position on the issue is, today, the most conspicuous expression of
the principle. So much so that the country is now in the grips of a
spirited and sometimes ugly controversy over an imagined conflict
between States’ Rights, on the one hand, and what are called “civil
rights” on the other.

I say an imagined conflict because I deny that there _can_ be a
conflict between States’ Rights, properly defined--and civil rights,
properly defined. If States’ “Rights” are so asserted as to encroach
upon individual rights that are protected by valid federal laws, then
the exercise of state power is a nullity. Conversely, if individual
“rights” are so asserted as to infringe upon valid state power, then
the assertion of those “rights” is a nullity. The rights themselves
do not clash. The conflict arises from a failure to define the two
categories of rights correctly, and to assert them lawfully.

States’ Rights are easy enough to define. The Tenth Amendment does
it succinctly: “The powers not delegated to the United States by the
Constitution nor prohibited by it to the States are reserved to the
States respectively, or to the people.”

Civil rights should be no harder. In fact, however--thanks to
extravagant and shameless misuse by people who ought to know better--it
is one of the most badly understood concepts in modern political
usage. Civil rights is frequently used synonymously with “human
rights”--or with “natural rights.” As often as not, it is simply a
name for describing an activity that someone deems politically or
socially desirable. A sociologist writes a paper proposing to abolish
some inequity, or a politician makes a speech about it--and, behold,
a new “civil right” is born! The Supreme Court has displayed the same
creative powers.

A _civil_ right is a right that is asserted and is therefore protected
by some valid law. It may be asserted by the common law, or by local
or federal statutes, or by the Constitution; _but unless a right
is incorporated in the law, it is not a civil right and is not
enforceable by the instruments of the civil law_. There may be some
rights--“natural,” “human,” or otherwise--that _should_ also be civil
rights. But if we desire to give such rights the protection of the law,
our recourse is to a legislature or to the amendment procedures of the
Constitution. We must not look to politicians, or sociologists--or the
courts--to correct the deficiency.

In the field of racial relations, there are some rights that are
clearly protected by valid laws and are therefore “civil” rights. One
of them is the right to vote. The Fifteenth Amendment provides that no
one shall be denied the franchise on account of race, color or previous
condition of servitude. Similarly with certain legal privileges
enforced by the Fourteenth Amendment. The legislative history of that
amendment makes it clear (I quote from the Civil Rights Act of 1866
which the Amendment was designed to legitimize) that people of all
races shall be equally entitled “to make and enforce contracts, to
sue, be parties, and give evidence, to inherit, to purchase, lease,
sell, hold and convey real and personal property and to full and
equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for the security of persons
and property.” After the passage of that Act and the Amendment, all
persons, Negroes included, had a “civil” right to these protections.

It is otherwise, let us note, with education. For the federal
Constitution does _not_ require the States to maintain racially mixed
schools. Despite the recent holding of the Supreme Court, I am firmly
convinced--not only that integrated schools are not required--but
that the Constitution does not permit any interference whatsoever by
the federal government in the field of education. It may be just or
wise or expedient for negro children to attend the same schools as
white children, but they do not have a civil right to do so which is
protected by the federal constitution, or which is enforceable by the
federal government.

The intentions of the founding fathers in this matter are beyond
any doubt: _no powers regarding education were given the federal
government_. Consequently, under the Tenth Amendment, jurisdiction over
the entire field was reserved to the States. The remaining question is
whether the Fourteenth Amendment--concretely, that amendment’s “equal
protection” clause--modified the original prohibition against


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Peter Pan
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Peter Pan

Author: J. M. Barrie

Release date: June 25, 2008 [eBook #16]
                Most recently updated: February 15, 2021

Language: English

Credits: Duncan Research


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PETER PAN ***




Peter Pan

[PETER AND WENDY]

by J. M. Barrie [James Matthew Barrie]

A Millennium Fulcrum Edition produced in 1991 by Duncan Research. Note
that while a copyright was initially claimed for the labor involved in
digitization, that copyright claim is not consistent with current
copyright requirements. This text, which matches the 1911 original
publication, is in the public domain in the US.


Contents

 Chapter I. PETER BREAKS THROUGH
 Chapter II. THE SHADOW
 Chapter III. COME AWAY, COME AWAY!
 Chapter IV. THE FLIGHT
 Chapter V. THE ISLAND COME TRUE
 Chapter VI. THE LITTLE HOUSE
 Chapter VII. THE HOME UNDER THE GROUND
 Chapter VIII. THE MERMAIDS’ LAGOON
 Chapter IX. THE NEVER BIRD
 Chapter X. THE HAPPY HOME
 Chapter XI. WENDY’S STORY
 Chapter XII. THE CHILDREN ARE CARRIED OFF
 Chapter XIII. DO YOU BELIEVE IN FAIRIES?
 Chapter XIV. THE PIRATE SHIP
 Chapter XV. “HOOK OR ME THIS TIME”
 Chapter XVI. THE RETURN HOME
 Chapter XVII. WHEN WENDY GREW UP




Chapter I.
PETER BREAKS THROUGH


All children, except one, grow up. They soon know that they will grow
up, and the way Wendy knew was this. One day when she was two years old
she was playing in a garden, and she plucked another flower and ran
with it to her mother. I suppose she must have looked rather
delightful, for Mrs. Darling put her hand to her heart and cried, “Oh,
why can’t you remain like this for ever!” This was all that passed
between them on the subject, but henceforth Wendy knew that she must
grow up. You always know after you are two. Two is the beginning of the
end.

Of course they lived at 14, and until Wendy came her mother was the
chief one. She was a lovely lady, with a romantic mind and such a sweet
mocking mouth. Her romantic mind was like the tiny boxes, one within
the other, that come from the puzzling East, however many you discover
there is always one more; and her sweet mocking mouth had one kiss on
it that Wendy could never get, though there it was, perfectly
conspicuous in the right-hand corner.

The way Mr. Darling won her was this: the many gentlemen who had been
boys when she was a girl discovered simultaneously that they loved her,
and they all ran to her house to propose to her except Mr. Darling, who
took a cab and nipped in first, and so he got her. He got all of her,
except the innermost box and the kiss. He never knew about the box, and
in time he gave up trying for the kiss. Wendy thought Napoleon could
have got it, but I can picture him trying, and then going off in a
passion, slamming the door.

Mr. Darling used to boast to Wendy that her mother not only loved him
but respected him. He was one of those deep ones who know about stocks
and shares. Of course no one really knows, but he quite seemed to know,
and he often said stocks were up and shares were down in a way that
would have made any woman respect him.

Mrs. Darling was married in white, and at first she kept the books
perfectly, almost gleefully, as if it were a game, not so much as a
Brussels sprout was missing; but by and by whole cauliflowers dropped
out, and instead of them there were pictures of babies without faces.
She drew them when she should have been totting up. They were Mrs.
Darling’s guesses.

Wendy came first, then John, then Michael.

For a week or two after Wendy came it was doubtful whether they would
be able to keep her, as she was another mouth to feed. Mr. Darling was
frightfully proud of her, but he was very honourable, and he sat on the
edge of Mrs. Darling’s bed, holding her hand and calculating expenses,
while she looked at him imploringly. She wanted to risk it, come what
might, but that was not his way; his way was with a pencil and a piece
of paper, and if she confused him with suggestions he had to begin at
the beginning again.

“Now don’t interrupt,” he would beg of her.

“I have one pound seventeen here, and two and six at the office; I can
cut off my coffee at the office, say ten shillings, making two nine and
six, with your eighteen and three makes three nine seven, with five
naught naught in my cheque-book makes eight nine seven—who is that
moving?—eight nine seven, dot and carry seven—don’t speak, my own—and
the pound you lent to that man who came to the door—quiet, child—dot
and carry child—there, you’ve done it!—did I say nine nine seven? yes,
I said nine nine seven; the question is, can we try it for a year on
nine nine seven?”

“Of course we can, George,” she cried. But she was prejudiced in
Wendy’s favour, and he was really the grander character of the two.

“Remember mumps,” he warned her almost threateningly, and off he went
again. “Mumps one pound, that is what I have put down, but I daresay it
will be more like thirty shillings—don’t speak—measles one five, German
measles half a guinea, makes two fifteen six—don’t waggle your
finger—whooping-cough, say fifteen shillings”—and so on it went, and it
added up differently each time; but at last Wendy just got through,
with mumps reduced to twelve six, and the two kinds of measles treated
as one.

There was the same excitement over John, and Michael had even a
narrower squeak; but both were kept, and soon, you might have seen the
three of them going in a row to Miss Fulsom’s Kindergarten school,
accompanied by their nurse.

Mrs. Darling loved to have everything just so, and Mr. Darling had a
passion for being exactly like his neighbours; so, of course, they had
a nurse. As they were poor, owing to the amount of milk the children
drank, this nurse was a prim Newfoundland dog, called Nana, who had
belonged to no one in particular until the Darlings engaged her. She
had always thought children important, however, and the Darlings had
become acquainted with her in Kensington Gardens, where she spent most
of her spare time peeping into perambulators, and was much hated by
careless nursemaids, whom she followed to their homes and complained of
to their mistresses. She proved to be quite a treasure of a nurse. How
thorough she was at bath-time, and up at any moment of the night if one
of her charges made the slightest cry. Of course her kennel was in the
nursery. She had a genius for knowing when a cough is a thing to have
no patience with and when it needs stocking around your throat. She
believed to her last day in old-fashioned remedies like rhubarb leaf,
and made sounds of contempt over all this new-fangled talk about germs,
and so on. It was a lesson in propriety to see her escorting the
children to school, walking sedately by their side when they were well
behaved, and butting them back into line if they strayed. On John’s
footer days she never once forgot his sweater, and she usually carried
an umbrella in her mouth in case of rain. There is a room in the
basement of Miss Fulsom’s school where the nurses wait. They sat on
forms, while Nana lay on the floor, but that was the only difference.
They affected to ignore her as of an inferior social status to
themselves, and she despised their light talk. She resented visits to
the nursery from Mrs. Darling’s friends, but if they did come she first
whipped off Michael’s pinafore and put him into the one with blue
braiding, and smoothed out Wendy and made a dash at John’s hair.

No nursery could possibly have been conducted more correctly, and Mr.
Darling knew it, yet he sometimes wondered uneasily whether the
neighbours talked.

He had his position in the city to consider.

Nana also troubled him in another way. He had sometimes a feeling that
she did not admire him. “I know she admires you tremendously, George,”
Mrs. Darling would assure him, and then she would sign to the children
to be specially nice to father. Lovely dances followed, in which the
only other servant, Liza, was sometimes allowed to join. Such a midget
she looked in her long skirt and maid’s cap, though she had sworn, when
engaged, that she would never see ten again. The gaiety of those romps!
And gayest of all was Mrs. Darling, who would pirouette so wildly that
all you could see of her was the kiss, and then if you had dashed at
her you might have got it. There never was a simpler happier family
until the coming of Peter Pan.

Mrs. Darling first heard of Peter when she was tidying up her
children’s minds. It is the nightly custom of every good mother after
her children are asleep to rummage in their minds and put things
straight for next morning, repacking into their proper places the many
articles that have wandered during the day. If you could keep awake
(but of course you can’t) you would see your own mother doing this, and
you would find it very interesting to watch her. It is quite like
tidying up drawers. You would see her on her knees, I expect, lingering
humorously over some of your contents, wondering where on earth you had
picked this thing up, making discoveries sweet and not so sweet,
pressing this to her cheek as if it were as nice as a kitten, and
hurriedly stowing that out of sight. When you wake in the morning, the
naughtiness and evil passions with which you went to bed have been
folded up small and placed at the bottom of your mind and on the top,
beautifully aired, are spread out your prettier thoughts, ready for you
to put on.

I don’t know whether you have ever seen a map of a person’s mind.
Doctors sometimes draw maps of other parts of you, and your own map can
become intensely interesting, but catch them trying to draw a map of a
child’s mind, which is not only confused, but keeps going round all the
time. There are zigzag lines on it, just like your temperature on a
card, and these are probably roads in the island, for the Neverland is
always more or less an island, with astonishing splashes of colour here
and there, and coral reefs and rakish-looking craft in the offing, and
savages and lonely lairs, and gnomes who are mostly tailors, and caves
through which a river runs, and princes with six elder brothers, and a
hut fast going to decay, and one very small old lady with a hooked
nose. It would be an easy map if that were all, but there is also first
day at school, religion, fathers, the round pond, needle-work, murders,
hangings, verbs that take the dative, chocolate pudding day, getting
into braces, say ninety-nine, three-pence for pulling out your tooth
yourself, and so on, and either these are part of the island or they
are another map showing through, and it is all rather confusing,
especially as nothing will stand still.

Of course the Neverlands vary a good deal. John’s, for instance, had a
lagoon with flamingoes flying over it at which John was shooting, while
Michael, who was very small, had a flamingo with lagoons flying over
it. John lived in a boat turned upside down on the sands, Michael in a
wigwam, Wendy in a house of leaves deftly sewn together. John had no
friends, Michael had friends at night, Wendy had a pet wolf forsaken by
its parents, but on the whole the Neverlands have a family resemblance,
and if they stood still in a row you could say of them that they have
each other’s nose, and so forth. On these magic shores children at play
are for ever beaching their coracles. We too have been there; we can
still hear the sound of the surf, though we shall land no more.

Of all delectable islands the Neverland is the snuggest and most
compact, not large and sprawly, you know, with tedious distances
between one adventure and another, but nicely crammed. When you play at
it by day with the chairs and table-cloth, it is not in the least
alarming, but in the two minutes before you go to sleep it becomes very
real. That is why there are night-lights.

Occasionally in her travels through her children’s minds Mrs. Darling
found things she could not understand, and of these quite the most
perplexing was the word Peter. She knew of no Peter, and yet he was
here and there in John and Michael’s minds, while Wendy’s began to be
scrawled all over with him. The name stood out in bolder letters than
any of the other words, and as Mrs. Darling gazed she felt that it had
an oddly cocky appearance.

“Yes, he is rather cocky,” Wendy admitted with regret. Her mother had
been questioning her.

“But who is he, my pet?”

“He is Peter Pan, you know, mother.”

At first Mrs. Darling did not know, but after thinking back into her
childhood she just remembered a Peter Pan who was said to live with the
fairies. There were odd stories about him, as that when children died
he went part of the way with them, so that they should not be
frightened. She had believed in him at the time, but now that she was
married and full of sense she quite doubted whether there was any such
person.

“Besides,” she said to Wendy, “he would be grown up by this time.”

“Oh no, he isn’t grown up,” Wendy assured her confidently, “and he is
just my size.” She meant that he was her size in both mind and body;
she didn’t know how she knew, she just knew it.

Mrs. Darling consulted Mr. Darling, but he smiled pooh-pooh. “Mark my
words,” he said, “it is some nonsense Nana has been putting into their
heads; just the sort of idea a dog would have. Leave it alone, and it
will blow over.”

But it would not blow over and soon the troublesome boy gave Mrs.
Darling quite a shock.

Children have the strangest adventures without being troubled by them.
For instance, they may remember to mention, a week after the event
happened, that when they were in the wood they had met their dead
father and had a game with him. It was in this casual way that Wendy
one morning made a disquieting revelation. Some leaves of a tree had
been found on the nursery floor, which certainly were not there when
the children went to bed, and Mrs. Darling was puzzling over them when
Wendy said with a tolerant smile:

“I do believe it is that Peter again!”

“Whatever do you mean, Wendy?”

“It is so naughty of him not to wipe his feet,” Wendy said, sighing.
She was a tidy child.

She explained in quite a matter-of-fact way that she thought Peter
sometimes came to the nursery in the night and sat on the foot of her
bed and played on his pipes to her. Unfortunately she never woke, so
she didn’t know how she knew, she just knew.

“What nonsense you talk, precious. No one can get into the house
without knocking.”

“I think he comes in by the window,” she said.

“My love, it is three floors up.”

“Were not the leaves at the foot of the window, mother?”

It was quite true; the leaves had been found very near the window.

Mrs. Darling did not know what to think, for it all seemed so natural
to Wendy that you could not dismiss it by saying she had been dreaming.

“My child,” the mother cried, “why did you not tell me of this before?”

“I forgot,” said Wendy lightly. She was in a hurry to get her
breakfast.

Oh, surely she must have been dreaming.

But, on the other hand, there were the leaves. Mrs. Darling examined
them very carefully; they were skeleton leaves, but she was sure they
did not come from any tree that grew in England. She crawled about the
floor, peering at it with a candle for marks of a strange foot. She
rattled the poker up the chimney and tapped the walls. She let down a
tape from the window to the pavement, and it was a sheer drop of thirty
feet, without so much as a spout to climb up by.

Certainly Wendy had been dreaming.

But Wendy had not been dreaming, as the very next night showed, the
night on which the extraordinary adventures of these children may be
said to have begun.

On the night we speak of all the children were once more in bed. It
happened to be Nana’s evening off, and Mrs. Darling had bathed them and
sung to them till one by one they had let go her hand and slid away
into the land of sleep.

All were looking so safe and cosy that she smiled at her fears now and
sat down tranquilly by the fire to sew.

It was something for Michael, who on his birthday was getting into
shirts. The fire was warm, however, and the nursery dimly lit by three
night-lights, and presently the sewing lay on Mrs. Darling’s lap. Then
her head nodded, oh, so gracefully. She was asleep. Look at the four of
them, Wendy and Michael over there, John here, and Mrs. Darling by the
fire. There should have been a fourth night-light.

While she slept she had a dream. She dreamt that the Neverland had come
too near and that a strange boy had broken through from it. He did not
alarm her, for she thought she had seen him before in the faces of many
women who have no children. Perhaps he is to be found in the faces of
some mothers also. But in her dream he had rent the film that obscures
the Neverland, and she saw Wendy and John and Michael peeping through
the gap.

The dream by itself would have been a trifle, but while she was
dreaming the window of the nursery blew open, and a boy did drop on the
floor. He was accompanied by a strange light, no bigger than your fist,
which darted about the room like a living thing and I think it must
have been this light that wakened Mrs. Darling.

She started up with a cry, and saw the boy, and somehow she knew at
once that he was Peter Pan. If you or I or Wendy had been there we
should have seen that he was very like Mrs. Darling’s kiss. He was a
lovely boy, clad in skeleton leaves and the juices that ooze out of
trees but the most entrancing thing about him was that he had all his
first teeth. When he saw she was a grown-up, he gnashed the little
pearls at her.




Chapter II.
THE SHADOW


Mrs. Darling screamed, and, as if in answer to a bell, the door opened,
and Nana entered, returned from her evening out. She growled and sprang
at the boy, who leapt lightly through the window. Again Mrs. Darling
screamed, this time in distress for him, for she thought he was killed,
and she ran down into the street to look for his little body, but it
was not there; and she looked up, and in the black night she could see
nothing but what she thought was a shooting star.

She returned to the nursery, and found Nana with something in her
mouth, which proved to be the boy’s shadow. As he leapt at the window
Nana had closed it quickly, too late to catch him, but his shadow had
not had time to get out; slam went the window and snapped it off.

You may be sure Mrs. Darling examined the shadow carefully, but it was
quite the ordinary kind.

Nana had no doubt of what was the best thing to do with this shadow.
She hung it out at the window, meaning “He is sure to come back for it;
let us put it where he can get it easily without disturbing the
children.”

But unfortunately Mrs. Darling could not leave it hanging out at the
window, it looked so like the washing and lowered the whole tone of the
house. She thought of showing it to Mr. Darling, but he was totting up
winter great-coats for John and Michael, with a wet towel around his
head to keep his brain clear, and it seemed a shame to trouble him;
besides, she knew exactly what he would say: “It all comes of having a
dog for a nurse.”

She decided to roll the shadow up and put it away carefully in a
drawer, until a fitting opportunity came for telling her husband. Ah
me!

The opportunity came a week later, on that never-to-be-forgotten
Friday. Of course it was a Friday.

“I ought to have been specially careful on a Friday,” she used to say
afterwards to her husband, while perhaps Nana was on the other side of
her, holding her hand.

“No, no,” Mr. Darling always said, “I am responsible for it all. I,
George Darling, did it. _Mea culpa, mea culpa_.” He had had a classical
education.

They sat thus night after night recalling that fatal Friday, till every
detail of it was stamped on their brains and came through on the other
side like the faces on a bad coinage.

“If only I had not accepted that invitation to dine at 27,” Mrs.
Darling said.

“If only I had not poured my medicine into Nana’s bowl,” said Mr.
Darling.

“If only I had pretended to like the medicine,” was what Nana’s wet
eyes said.

“My liking for parties, George.”

“My fatal gift of humour, dearest.”

“My touchiness about trifles, dear master and mistress.”

Then one or more of them would break down altogether; Nana at the
thought, “It’s true, it’s true, they ought not to have had a dog for a
nurse.” Many a time it was Mr. Darling who put the handkerchief to
Nana’s eyes.

“That fiend!” Mr. Darling would cry, and Nana’s bark was the echo of
it, but Mrs. Darling never upbraided Peter; there was something in the
right-hand corner of her mouth that wanted her not to call Peter names.

They would sit there in the empty nursery, recalling fondly every
smallest detail of that dreadful evening. It had begun so uneventfully,
so precisely like a hundred other evenings, with Nana putting on the
water for Michael’s bath and carrying him to it on her back.

“I won’t go to bed,” he had shouted, like one who still believed that
he had the last word on the subject, “I won’t, I won’t. Nana, it isn’t
six o’clock yet. Oh dear, oh dear, I shan’t love you any more, Nana. I
tell you I won’t be bathed, I won’t, I won’t!”

Then Mrs. Darling had come in, wearing her white evening-gown. She had
dressed early because Wendy so loved to see her in her evening-gown,
with the necklace George had given her. She was wearing Wendy’s
bracelet on her arm; she had asked for the loan of it. Wendy loved to
lend her bracelet to her mother.

She had found her two older children playing at being herself and
father on the occasion of Wendy’s birth, and John was saying:

“I am happy to inform you, Mrs. Darling, that you are now a mother,” in
just such a tone as Mr. Darling himself may have used on the real
occasion.

Wendy had danced with joy, just as the real Mrs. Darling must have
done.

Then John was born, with the extra pomp that he conceived due to the
birth of a male, and Michael came from his bath to ask to be born also,
but John said brutally that they did not want any more.

Michael had nearly cried. “Nobody wants me,” he said, and of course the
lady in the evening-dress could not stand that.

“I do,” she said, “I so want a third child.”

“Boy or girl?” asked Michael, not too hopefully.

“Boy.”

Then he had leapt into her arms. Such a little thing for Mr. and Mrs.
Darling and Nana to recall now, but not so little if that was to be
Michael’s last night in the nursery.

They go on with their recollections.

“It was then that I rushed in like a tornado, wasn’t it?” Mr. Darling
would say, scorning himself; and indeed he had been like a tornado.

Perhaps there was some excuse for him. He, too, had been dressing for
the party, and all had gone well with him until he came to his tie. It
is an astounding thing to have to tell, but this man, though he knew
about stocks and shares, had no real mastery of his tie. Sometimes the
thing yielded to him without a contest, but there were occasions when
it would have been better for the house if he had swallowed his pride
and used a made-up tie.

This was such an occasion. He came rushing into the nursery with the
crumpled little brute of a tie in his hand.

“Why, what is the matter, father dear?”

“Matter!” he yelled; he really yelled. “This tie, it will not tie.” He
became dangerously sarcastic. “Not round my neck! Round the bed-post!
Oh yes, twenty times have I made it up round the bed-post, but round my
neck, no! Oh dear no! begs to be excused!”

He thought Mrs. Darling was not sufficiently impressed, and he went on
sternly, “I warn you of this, mother, that unless this tie is round my
neck we don’t go out to dinner to-night, and if I don’t go out to
dinner to-night, I never go to the office again, and if I don’t go to
the office again, you and I starve, and our children will be flung into
the streets.”

Even then Mrs. Darling was placid. “Let me try, dear,” she said, and
indeed that was what he had come to ask her to do, and with her nice
cool hands she tied his tie for him, while the children stood around to
see their fate decided. Some men would have resented her being able to
do it so easily, but Mr. Darling had far too fine a nature for that; he
thanked her carelessly, at once forgot his rage, and in another moment
was dancing round the room with Michael on his back.

“How wildly we romped!” says Mrs. Darling now, recalling it.

“Our last romp!” Mr. Darling groaned.

“O George, do you remember Michael suddenly said to me, ‘How did you
get to know me, mother?’”

“I remember!”

“They were rather sweet, don’t you think, George?”

“And they were ours, ours! and now they are gone.”

The romp had ended with the appearance of Nana, and most unluckily Mr.
Darling collided against her, covering his trousers with hairs. They
were not only new trousers, but they were the first he had ever had
with braid on them, and he had had to bite his lip to prevent the tears
coming. Of course Mrs. Darling brushed him, but he began to talk again
about its being a mistake to have a dog for a nurse.

“George, Nana is a treasure.”

“No doubt, but I have an uneasy feeling at times that she looks upon
the children as puppies.”

“Oh no, dear one, I feel sure she knows they have souls.”

“I wonder,” Mr. Darling said thoughtfully, “I wonder.” It was an
opportunity, his wife felt, for telling him about the boy. At first he
pooh-poohed the story, but he became thoughtful when she showed him the
shadow.

“It is nobody I know,” he said, examining it carefully, “but it does
look a scoundrel.”

“We were still discussing it, you remember,” says Mr. Darling, “when
Nana came in with Michael’s medicine. You will never carry the bottle
in your mouth again, Nana, and it is all my fault.”

Strong man though he was, there is no doubt that he had behaved rather
foolishly over the medicine. If he had a weakness, it was for thinking
that all his life he had taken medicine boldly, and so now, when
Michael dodged the spoon in Nana’s mouth, he had said reprovingly, “Be
a man, Michael.”

“Won’t; won’t!” Michael cried naughtily. Mrs. Darling left the room to
get a chocolate for him, and Mr. Darling thought this showed want of
firmness.

“Mother, don’t pamper him,” he called after her. “Michael, when I was
your age I took medicine without a murmur. I said, ‘Thank you, kind
parents, for giving me bottles to make me well.’”

He really thought this was true, and Wendy, who was now in her
night-gown, believed it also, and she said, to encourage Michael, “That
medicine you sometimes take, father, is much nastier, isn’t it?”

“Ever so much nastier,” Mr. Darling said bravely, “and I would take it
now as an example to you, Michael, if I hadn’t lost the bottle.”

He had not exactly lost it; he had climbed in the dead of night to the
top of the wardrobe and hidden it there. What he did not know was that
the faithful Liza had found it, and put it back on his wash-stand.

“I know where it is, father,” Wendy cried, always glad to be of
service. “I’ll bring it,” and she was off before he could stop her.
Immediately his spirits sank in the strangest way.

“John,” he said, shuddering, “it’s most beastly stuff. It’s that nasty,
sticky, sweet kind.”

“It will soon be over, father,” John said cheerily, and then in rushed
Wendy with the medicine in a glass.

“I have been as quick as I could,” she panted.

“You have been wonderfully quick,” her father retorted, with a
vindictive politeness that was quite thrown away upon her. “Michael
first,” he said doggedly.

“Father first,” said Michael, who was of a suspicious nature.

“I shall be sick, you know,” Mr. Darling said threateningly.

“Come on, father,” said John.

“Hold your tongue, John,” his father rapped out.

Wendy was quite puzzled. “I thought you took it quite easily, father.”

“That is not the point,” he retorted. “The point is, that there is more
in my glass than in Michael’s spoon.” His proud heart was nearly
bursting. “And it isn’t fair: I would say it though it were with my
last breath; it isn’t fair.”

“Father, I am waiting,” said Michael coldly.

“It’s all very well to say you are waiting; so am I waiting.”

“Father’s a cowardly custard.”

“So are you a cowardly custard.”

“I’m not frightened.”

“Neither am I frightened.”

“Well, then, take it.”

“Well, then, you take it.”

Wendy had a splendid idea. “Why not both take it at the same time?”

“Certainly,” said Mr. Darling. “Are you ready, Michael?”

Wendy gave the words, one, two, three, and Michael took his medicine,
but Mr. Darling slipped his behind his back.

There was a yell of rage from Michael, and “O father!” Wendy exclaimed.

“What do you mean by ‘O father’?” Mr. Darling demanded. “Stop that row,
Michael. I meant to take mine, but I—I missed it.”

It was dreadful the way all the three were looking at him, just as if
they did not admire him. “Look here, all of you,” he said entreatingly,
as soon as Nana had gone into the bathroom. “I have just thought of a
splendid joke. I shall pour my medicine into Nana’s bowl, and she will
drink it, thinking it is milk!”

It was the colour of milk; but the children did not have their father’s
sense of humour, and they looked at him reproachfully as he poured the
medicine into Nana’s bowl. “What fun!” he said doubtfully, and they did
not dare expose him when Mrs. Darling and Nana returned.

“Nana, good dog,” he said, patting her, “I have put a little milk into
your bowl, Nana.”

Nana wagged her tail, ran to the medicine, and began lapping it. Then
she gave Mr. Darling such a look, not an angry look: she showed him the
great red tear that makes us so sorry for noble dogs, and crept into
her kennel.

Mr. Darling was frightfully ashamed of himself, but he would not give
in. In a horrid silence Mrs. Darling smelt the bowl. “O George,” she
said, “it’s your medicine!”

“It was only a joke,” he roared, while she comforted her boys, and
Wendy hugged Nana. “Much good,” he said bitterly, “my wearing myself to
the bone trying to be funny in this house.”

And still Wendy hugged Nana. “That’s right,” he shouted. “Coddle her!
Nobody coddles me. Oh dear no! I am only the breadwinner, why should I
be coddled—why, why, why!”

“George,” Mrs. Darling entreated him, “not so loud; the servants will
hear you.” Somehow they had got into the way of calling Liza the
servants.

“Let them!” he answered recklessly. “Bring in the whole world. But I
refuse to allow that dog to lord it in my nursery for an hour longer.”

The children wept, and Nana ran to him beseechingly, but he waved her
back. He felt he was a strong man again. “In vain, in vain,” he cried;
“the proper place for you is the yard, and there you go to be tied up
this instant.”

“George, George,” Mrs. Darling whispered, “remember what I told you
about that boy.”

Alas, he would not listen. He was determined to show who was master in
that house, and when commands would not draw Nana from the kennel, he
lured her out of it with honeyed words, and seizing her roughly,
dragged her from the nursery. He was ashamed of himself, and yet he did
it. It was all owing to his too affectionate nature, which craved for
admiration. When he had tied her up in the back-yard, the wretched
father went and sat in the passage, with his knuckles to his eyes.

In the meantime Mrs. Darling had put the children to bed in unwonted
silence and lit their night-lights. They could hear Nana barking, and
John whimpered, “It is because he is chaining her up in the yard,” but
Wendy was wiser.

“That is not Nana’s unhappy bark,” she said, little guessing what was
about to happen; “that is her bark when she smells danger.”

Danger!

“Are you sure, Wendy?”

“Oh, yes.”

Mrs. Darling quivered and went to the window. It was securely fastened.
She looked out, and the night was peppered with stars. They were
crowding round the house, as if curious to see what was to take place
there, but she did not notice this, nor that one or two of the smaller
ones winked at her. Yet a nameless fear clutched at her heart and made
her cry, “Oh, how I wish that I wasn’t going to a party to-night!”

Even Michael, already half asleep, knew that she was perturbed, and he
asked, “Can anything harm us, mother, after the night-lights are lit?”

“Nothing, precious,” she said; “they are the eyes a mother leaves
behind her to guard her children.”

She went from bed to bed singing enchantments over them, and little
Michael flung his arms round her. “Mother,” he cried, “I’m glad of
you.” They were the last words she was to hear from him for a long
time.

No. 27 was only a few yards distant, but there had been a slight fall
of snow, and Father and Mother Darling picked their way over it deftly
not to soil their shoes. They were already the only persons in the
street, and all the stars were watching them. Stars are beautiful, but
they may not take an active part in anything, they must just look on
for ever. It is a punishment put on them for something they did so long
ago that no star now knows what it was. So the older ones have become
glassy-eyed and seldom speak (winking is the star language), but the
little ones still wonder. They are not really friendly to Peter, who
had a mischievous way of stealing up behind them and trying to blow
them out; but they are so fond of fun that they were on his side
to-night, and anxious to get the grown-ups out of the way. So as soon
as the door of 27 closed on Mr. and Mrs. Darling there was a commotion
in the firmament, and the smallest of all the stars in the Milky Way
screamed out:

“Now, Peter!”




Chapter III.
COME AWAY, COME AWAY!


For a moment after Mr. and Mrs. Darling left the house the night-lights
by the beds of the three children continued to burn clearly. They were
awfully nice little night-lights, and one cannot help wishing that they
could have kept awake to see Peter; but Wendy’s light blinked and gave
such a yawn that the other two yawned also, and before they could close
their mouths all the three went out.

There was another light in the room now, a thousand times brighter than
the night-lights, and in the time we have taken to say this, it had
been in all the drawers in the nursery, looking for Peter’s shadow,
rummaged the wardrobe and turned every pocket inside out. It was not
really a light; it made this light by flashing about so quickly, but
when it came to rest for a second you saw it was a fairy, no longer
than your hand, but still growing. It was a girl called Tinker Bell
exquisitely gowned in a skeleton leaf, cut low and square, through
which her figure could be seen to the best advantage. She was slightly
inclined to _embonpoint_.

A moment after the fairy’s entrance the window was blown open by the
breathing of the little stars, and Peter dropped in. He had carried
Tinker Bell part of the way, and his hand was still messy with the
fairy dust.

“Tinker Bell,” he called softly, after making sure that the children
were asleep, “Tink, where are you?” She was in a jug for the moment,
and liking it extremely; she had never been in a jug before.

“Oh, do come out of that jug, and tell me, do you know where they put
my shadow?”

The loveliest tinkle as of golden bells answered him. It is the fairy
language. You ordinary children can never hear it, but if you were to
hear it you would know that you had heard it once before.

Tink said that the shadow was in the big box. She meant the chest of
drawers, and Peter jumped at the drawers, scattering their contents to
the floor with both hands, as kings toss ha’pence to the crowd. In a
moment he had recovered his shadow, and in his delight he forgot that
he had shut Tinker Bell up in the drawer.

If he thought at all, but I don’t believe he ever thought, it was that
he and his shadow, when brought near each other, would join like drops
of water, and when they did not he was appalled. He tried to stick it
on with soap from the bathroom, but that also failed. A shudder passed
through Peter, and he sat on the floor and cried.

His sobs woke Wendy, and she sat up in bed. She was not alarmed to see
a stranger crying on the nursery floor; she was only pleasantly
interested.

“Boy,” she said courteously, “why are you crying?”

Peter could be exceeding polite also, having learned the grand manner
at fairy ceremonies, and he rose and bowed to her beautifully. She was
much pleased, and bowed beautifully to him from the bed.

“What’s your name?” he asked.

“Wendy Moira Angela Darling,” she replied with some satisfaction. “What
is your name?”

“Peter Pan.”

She was already sure that he must be Peter, but it did seem a
comparatively short name.

“Is that all?”

“Yes,” he said rather sharply. He felt for the first time that it was a
shortish name.

“I’m so sorry,” said Wendy Moira Angela.

“It doesn’t matter,” Peter gulped.

She asked where he lived.

“Second to the right,” said Peter, “and then straight on till morning.”

“What a funny address!”

Peter had a sinking. For the first time he felt that perhaps it was a
funny address.

“No, it isn’t,” he said.

“I mean,” Wendy said nicely, remembering that she was hostess, “is that
what they put on the letters?”

He wished she had not mentioned letters.

“Don’t get any letters,” he said contemptuously.

“But your mother gets letters?”

“Don’t have a mother,” he said. Not only had he no mother, but he had
not the slightest desire to have one. He thought them very over-rated
persons. Wendy, however, felt at once that she was in the presence of a
tragedy.

“O Peter, no wonder you were crying,” she said, and got out of bed and
ran to him.

“I wasn’t crying about mothers,” he said rather indignantly. “I was
crying because I can’t get my shadow to stick on. Besides, I wasn’t
crying.”

“It has come off?”

“Yes.”

Then Wendy saw the shadow on the floor, looking so draggled, and she
was frightfully sorry for Peter. “How awful!” she said, but she could
not help smiling when she saw that he had been trying to stick it on
with soap. How exactly like a boy!

Fortunately she knew at once what to do. “It must be sewn on,” she
said, just a little patronisingly.

“What’s sewn?” he asked.

“You’re dreadfully ignorant.”

“No, I’m not.”

But she was exulting in his ignorance. “I shall sew it on for you, my
little man,” she said, though he was tall as herself, and she got out
her housewife, and sewed the shadow on to Peter’s foot.

“I daresay it will hurt a little,” she warned him.

“Oh, I shan’t cry,” said Peter, who was already of the opinion that he
had never cried in his life. And he clenched his teeth and did not cry,
and soon his shadow was behaving properly, though still a little
creased.

“Perhaps I should have ironed it,” Wendy said thoughtfully, but Peter,
boylike, was indifferent to appearances, and he was now jumping about
in the wildest glee. Alas, he had already forgotten that he owed his
bliss to Wendy. He thought he had attached the shadow himself. “How
clever I am!” he crowed rapturously, “oh, the cleverness of me!”

It is humiliating to have to confess that this conceit of Peter was one
of his most fascinating qualities. To put it with brutal frankness,
there never was a cockier boy.

But for the moment Wendy was shocked. “You conceit,” she exclaimed,
with frightful sarcasm; “of course I did nothing!”

“You did a little,” Peter said carelessly, and continued to dance.

“A little!” she replied with hauteur; “if I am no use I can at least
withdraw,” and she sprang in the most dignified way into bed and
covered her face with the blankets.

To induce her to look up he pretended to be going away, and when this
failed he sat on the end of the bed and tapped her gently with his
foot. “Wendy,” he said, “don’t withdraw. I can’t help crowing, Wendy,
when I’m pleased with myself.” Still she would not look up, though she
was listening eagerly. “Wendy,” he continued, in a voice that no woman
has ever yet been able to resist, “Wendy, one girl is more use than
twenty boys.”

Now Wendy was every inch a woman, though there were not very many
inches, and she peeped out of the bed-clothes.

“Do you really think so, Peter?”

“Yes, I do.”

“I think it’s perfectly sweet of you,” she declared, “and I’ll get up
again,” and she sat with him on the side of the bed. She also said she
would give him a kiss if he liked, but Peter did not know what she
meant, and he held out his hand expectantly.

“Surely you know what a kiss is?” she asked, aghast.

“I shall know when you give it to me,” he replied stiffly, and not to
hurt his feeling she gave him a thimble.

“Now,” said he, “shall I give you a kiss?” and she replied with a
slight primness, “If you please.” She made herself rather cheap by
inclining her face toward him, but he merely dropped an acorn button
into her hand, so she slowly returned her face to where it had been
before, and said nicely that she would wear his kiss on the chain
around her neck. It was lucky that she did put it on that chain, for it
was afterwards to save her life.

When people in our set are introduced, it is customary for them to ask
each other’s age, and so Wendy, who always liked to do the correct
thing, asked Peter how old he was. It was not really a happy question
to ask him; it was like an examination paper that asks grammar, when
what you want to be asked is Kings of England.

“I don’t know,” he replied uneasily, “but I am quite young.” He really
knew nothing about it, he had merely suspicions, but he said at a
venture, “Wendy, I ran away the day I was born.”

Wendy was quite surprised, but interested; and she indicated in the
charming drawing-room manner, by a touch on her night-gown, that he
could sit nearer her.

“It was because I heard father and mother,” he explained in a low
voice, “talking about what I was to be when I became a man.” He was
extraordinarily agitated now. “I don’t want ever to be a man,” he said
with passion. “I want always to be a little boy and to have fun. So I
ran away to Kensington Gardens and lived a long long time among the
fairies.”

She gave him a look of the most intense admiration, and he thought it
was because he had run away, but it was really because he knew fairies.
Wendy had lived such a home life that to know fairies struck her as
quite delightful. She poured out questions about them, to his surprise,
for they were rather a nuisance to him, getting in his way and so on,
and indeed he sometimes had to give them a hiding. Still, he liked them
on the whole, and he told her about the beginning of fairies.

“You see, Wendy, when the first baby laughed for the first time, its
laugh broke into a thousand pieces, and they all went skipping about,
and that was the beginning of fairies.”

Tedious talk this, but being a stay-at-home she liked it.

“And so,” he went on good-naturedly, “there ought to be one fairy for
every boy and girl.”

“Ought to be? Isn’t there?”

“No. You see children know such a lot now, they soon don’t believe in
fairies, and every time a child says, ‘I don’t believe in fairies,’
there is a fairy somewhere that falls down dead.”

Really, he thought they had now talked enough about fairies, and it
struck him that Tinker Bell was keeping very quiet. “I can’t think
where she has gone to,” he said, rising, and he called Tink by name.
Wendy’s heart went flutter with a sudden thrill.

“Peter,” she cried, clutching him, “you don’t mean to tell me that
there is a fairy in this room!”

“She was here just now,” he said a little impatiently. “You don’t hear
her, do you?” and they both listened.

“The only sound I hear,” said Wendy, “is like a tinkle of bells.”

“Well, that’s Tink, that’s the fairy language. I think I hear her too.”

The sound came from the chest of drawers, and Peter made a merry face.
No one could ever look quite so merry as Peter, and the loveliest of
gurgles was his laugh. He had his first laugh still.

“Wendy,” he whispered gleefully, “I do believe I shut her up in the
drawer!”

He let poor Tink out of the drawer, and she flew about the nursery
screaming with fury. “You shouldn’t say such things,” Peter retorted.
“Of course I’m very sorry, but how could I know you were in the
drawer?”

Wendy was not listening to him. “O Peter,” she cried, “if she would
only stand still and let me see her!”

“They hardly ever stand still,” he said, but for one moment Wendy saw
the romantic figure come to rest on the cuckoo clock. “O the lovely!”
she cried, though Tink’s face was still distorted with passion.

“Tink,” said Peter amiably, “this lady says she wishes you were her
fairy.”

Tinker Bell answered insolently.

“What does she say, Peter?”

He had to translate. “She is not very polite. She says you are a great
ugly girl, and that she is my fairy.”

He tried to argue with Tink. “You know you can’t be my fairy, Tink,
because I am an gentleman and you are a lady.”

To this Tink replied in these words, “You silly ass,” and disappeared
into the bathroom. “She is quite a common fairy,” Peter explained
apologetically, “she is called Tinker Bell because she mends the pots
and kettles.”

They were together in the armchair by this time, and Wendy plied him
with more questions.

“If you don’t live in Kensington Gardens now—”

“Sometimes I do still.”

“But where do you live mostly now?”

“With the lost boys.”

“Who are they?”

“They are the children who fall out of their perambulators when the
nurse is looking the other way. If they are not claimed in seven days
they are sent far away to the Neverland to defray expenses. I’m
captain.”

“What fun it must be!”

“Yes,” said cunning Peter, “but we are rather lonely. You see we have
no female companionship.”

“Are none of the others girls?”

“Oh, no; girls, you know, are much too clever to fall out of their
prams.”

This flattered Wendy immensely. “I think,” she said, “it is perfectly
lovely the way you talk about girls; John there just despises us.”

For reply Peter rose and kicked John out of bed, blankets and all; one
kick. This seemed to Wendy rather forward for a first meeting, and she
told him with spirit that he was not captain in her house. However,
John continued to sleep so placidly on the floor that she allowed him
to remain there. “And I know you meant to be kind,” she said,
relenting, “so you may give me a kiss.”

For the moment she had forgotten his ignorance about kisses. “I thought
you would want it back,” he said a little bitterly, and offered to
return her the thimble.

“Oh dear,” said the nice Wendy, “I don’t mean a kiss, I mean a
thimble.”

“What’s that?”

“It’s like this.” She kissed him.

“Funny!” said Peter gravely. “Now shall I give you a thimble?”

“If you wish to,” said Wendy, keeping her head erect this time.

Peter thimbled her, and almost immediately she screeched. “What is it,
Wendy?”

“It was exactly as if someone were pulling my hair.”

“That must have been Tink. I never knew her so naughty before.”

And indeed Tink was darting about again, using offensive language.

“She says she will do that to you, Wendy, every time I give you a
thimble.”

“But why?”

“Why, Tink?”

Again Tink replied, “You silly ass.” Peter could not understand why,
but Wendy understood, and she was just slightly disappointed when he
admitted that he came to the nursery window not to see her but to
listen to stories.

“You see, I don’t know any stories. None of the lost boys knows any
stories.”

“How perfectly awful,” Wendy said.

“Do you know,” Peter asked “why swallows build in the eaves of houses?
It is to listen to the stories. O Wendy, your mother was telling you
such a lovely story.”

“Which story was it?”

“About the prince who couldn’t find the lady who wore the glass
slipper.”

“Peter,” said Wendy excitedly, “that was Cinderella, and he found her,
and they lived happily ever after.”

Peter was so glad that he rose from the floor, where they had been
sitting, and hurried to the window.

“Where are you going?” she cried with misgiving.

“To tell the other boys.”

“Don’t go Peter,” she entreated, “I